The Adventures of Sherlock HolmesArthur Conan DoyleThis text is provided to you “as-is” without any warranty. No warranties of any kind, expressed or implied, are made to you as to the textor any medium it may be on, including but not limited to warranties of merchantablity or ﬁtness for a particular purpose.This text was formatted from various free ASCII and HTML variants. See http:/ /sherlock-holm.es for an electronic form of this text andadditional information about it.This text comes from the collection’s version 3.1.Table of contentsA Scandal in Bohemia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1The Red-Headed League . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17A Case of Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31The Boscombe Valley Mystery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41The Five Orange Pips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55The Man with the Twisted Lip . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81The Adventure of the Speckled Band . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93The Adventure of the Engineer’s Thumb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107The Adventure of the Noble Bachelor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119The Adventure of the Beryl Coronet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131The Adventure of the Copper Beeches . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 145iiiA Scandal in BohemiaA Scandal in BohemiaTable of contentsChapter 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5Chapter 2. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9Chapter 3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143A Scandal in BohemiaCHAPTER I.ToSherlock Holmes she is always thewoman. I have seldom heard him men-tion her under any other name. In his eyesshe eclipses and predominates the wholeof her sex. It was not that he felt any emotion akinto love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that oneparticularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise butadmirably balanced mind. He was, I take it, the mostperfect reasoning and observing machine that theworld has seen, but as a lover he would have placedhimself in a false position. He never spoke of thesofter passions, save with a gibe and a sneer. Theywere admirable things for the observer—excellent fordrawing the veil from men’s motives and actions. Butfor the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions intohis own delicate and ﬁnely adjusted temperament wasto introduce a distracting factor which might throw adoubt upon all his mental results. Grit in a sensitiveinstrument, or a crack in one of his own high-powerlenses, would not be more disturbing than a strongemotion in a nature such as his. And yet there wasbut one woman to him, and that woman was the lateIrene Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage haddrifted us away from each other. My own completehappiness, and the home-centred interests which riseup around the man who ﬁrst ﬁnds himself master ofhis own establishment, were sufﬁcient to absorb allmy attention, while Holmes, who loathed every formof society with his whole Bohemian soul, remainedin our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his oldbooks, and alternating from week to week betweencocaine and ambition, the drowsiness of the drug,and the ﬁerce energy of his own keen nature. He wasstill, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime,and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinarypowers of observation in following out those clues,and clearing up those mysteries which had been aban-doned as hopeless by the ofﬁcial police. From timeto time I heard some vague account of his doings:of his summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoffmurder, of his clearing up of the singular tragedy ofthe Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee, and ﬁnally ofthe mission which he had accomplished so delicatelyand successfully for the reigning family of Holland.Beyond these signs of his activity, however, which Imerely shared with all the readers of the daily press,I knew little of my former friend and companion.One night—it was on the twentieth of March,1888 —I was returning from a journey to a patient(for I had now returned to civil practice), when myway led me through Baker Street. As I passed thewell-remembered door, which must always be associ-ated in my mind with my wooing, and with the darkincidents of the Study in Scarlet, I was seized with akeen desire to see Holmes again, and to know how hewas employing his extraordinary powers. His roomswere brilliantly lit, and, even as I looked up, I sawhis tall, spare ﬁgure pass twice in a dark silhouetteagainst the blind. He was pacing the room swiftly,eagerly, with his head sunk upon his chest and hishands clasped behind him. To me, who knew hisevery mood and habit, his attitude and manner toldtheir own story. He was at work again. He had risenout of his drug-created dreams and was hot upon thescent of some new problem. I rang the bell and wasshown up to the chamber which had formerly beenin part my own.His manner was not effusive. It seldom was; buthe was glad, I think, to see me. With hardly a wordspoken, but with a kindly eye, he waved me to anarmchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indi-cated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner. Thenhe stood before the ﬁre and looked me over in hissingular introspective fashion.“Wedlock suits you,” he remarked. “I think, Wat-son, that you have put on seven and a half poundssince I saw you.”“Seven!” I answered.“Indeed, I should have thought a little more. Just“Wedlock suits you,” he remarked. “I think, Wat-son, that you have put on seven and a half poundssince I saw you.”“Seven!” I answered.“Indeed, I should have thought a little more. Justa triﬂe more, I fancy, Watson. And in practice again, Iobserve. You did not tell me that you intended to gointo harness.”“Then, how do you know?”“I see it, I deduce it. How do I know that youhave been getting yourself very wet lately, and thatyou have a most clumsy and careless servant girl?”“My dear Holmes,” said I, “this is too much. Youwould certainly have been burned, had you lived afew centuries ago. It is true that I had a country walkon Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess, butas I have changed my clothes I can’t imagine how youdeduce it. As to Mary Jane, she is incorrigible, andmy wife has given her notice, but there, again, I failto see how you work it out.”He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long, ner-vous hands together.“It is simplicity itself,” said he; “my eyes tell methat on the inside of your left shoe, just where theﬁrelight strikes it, the leather is scored by six almost5A Scandal in Bohemiaparallel cuts. Obviously they have been caused bysomeone who has very carelessly scraped round theedges of the sole in order to remove crusted mudfrom it. Hence, you see, my double deduction thatyou had been out in vile weather, and that you had aparticularly malignant boot-slitting specimen of theLondon slavey. As to your practice, if a gentlemanwalks into my rooms smelling of iodoform, with ablack mark of nitrate of silver upon his right foreﬁn-ger, and a bulge on the right side of his top-hat toshow where he has secreted his stethoscope, I mustbe dull, indeed, if I do not pronounce him to be anactive member of the medical profession.”I could not help laughing at the ease with whichhe explained his process of deduction. “When I hearyou give your reasons,” I remarked, “the thing alwaysappears to me to be so ridiculously simple that I couldeasily do it myself, though at each successive instanceof your reasoning I am bafﬂed until you explain yourprocess. And yet I believe that my eyes are as goodas yours.”“Quite so,” he answered, lighting a cigarette, andthrowing himself down into an armchair. “You see,but you do not observe. The distinction is clear. Forexample, you have frequently seen the steps whichlead up from the hall to this room.”“Frequently.”“How often?”“Well, some hundreds of times.”“Then how many are there?”“How many? I don’t know.”“Quite so! You have not observed. And yet youhave seen. That is just my point. Now, I know thatthere are seventeen steps, because I have both seenand observed. By-the-way, since you are interested inthese little problems, and since you are good enoughto chronicle one or two of my triﬂing experiences, youmay be interested in this.” He threw over a sheet ofthick, pink-tinted note-paper which had been lyingopen upon the table. “It came by the last post,” saidhe. “Read it aloud.”The note was undated, and without either signa-ture or address.“There will call upon you to-night, at a quarter toeight o’clock,” it said, “a gentleman who desires toconsult you upon a matter of the very deepest mo-ment. Your recent services to one of the royal housesof Europe have shown that you are one who maysafely be trusted with matters which are of an impor-tance which can hardly be exaggerated. This accountof you we have from all quarters received. Be in yourchamber then at that hour, and do not take it amiss ifyour visitor wear a mask.”“This is indeed a mystery,” I remarked. “What doyou imagine that it means?”“I have no data yet. It is a capital mistake to the-orize before one has data. Insensibly one begins totwist facts to suit theories, instead of theories to suitfacts. But the note itself. What do you deduce fromit?”I carefully examined the writing, and the paperupon which it was written.“The man who wrote it was presumably well todo,” I remarked, endeavouring to imitate my com-panion’s processes. “Such paper could not be boughtunder half a crown a packet. It is peculiarly strongand stiff.”“Peculiar—that is the very word,” said Holmes.“It is not an English paper at all. Hold it up to thelight.”I did so, and saw a large “E” with a small “g,” a“P ,” and a large “G” with a small “t” woven into thetexture of the paper.“What do you make of that?” asked Holmes.“The name of the maker, no doubt; or his mono-gram, rather.”“Not at all. The ‘G’ with the small ‘t’ stands for‘Gesellschaft,’ which is the German for ‘Company.’It is a customary contraction like our ‘Co.’ ‘P ,’ ofcourse, stands for ‘Papier.’ Now for the ‘Eg.’ Let usglance at our Continental Gazetteer.” He took downa heavy brown volume from his shelves. “Eglow,Eglonitz—here we are, Egria. It is in a German-speaking country—in Bohemia, not far from Carls-bad. ‘Remarkable as being the scene of the death ofWallenstein, and for its numerous glass-factories andpaper-mills.’ Ha, ha, my boy, what do you make ofbad. ‘Remarkable as being the scene of the death ofWallenstein, and for its numerous glass-factories andpaper-mills.’ Ha, ha, my boy, what do you make ofthat?” His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great bluetriumphant cloud from his cigarette.“The paper was made in Bohemia,” I said.“Precisely. And the man who wrote the note isa German. Do you note the peculiar construction ofthe sentence—‘This account of you we have from allquarters received.’ A Frenchman or Russian couldnot have written that. It is the German who is so un-courteous to his verbs. It only remains, therefore, todiscover what is wanted by this German who writesupon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a maskto showing his face. And here he comes, if I am notmistaken, to resolve all our doubts.”6A Scandal in BohemiaAs he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses’hoofs and grating wheels against the curb, followedby a sharp pull at the bell. Holmes whistled.“A pair, by the sound,” said he. “Yes,” he con-tinued, glancing out of the window. “A nice littlebrougham and a pair of beauties. A hundred and ﬁftyguineas apiece. There’s money in this case, Watson, ifthere is nothing else.”“I think that I had better go, Holmes.”“Not a bit, Doctor. Stay where you are. I amlost without my Boswell. And this promises to beinteresting. It would be a pity to miss it.”“But your client—”“Never mind him. I may want your help, and somay he. Here he comes. Sit down in that armchair,Doctor, and give us your best attention.”A slow and heavy step, which had been heardupon the stairs and in the passage, paused immedi-ately outside the door. Then there was a loud andauthoritative tap.“Come in!” said Holmes.A man entered who could hardly have been lessthan six feet six inches in height, with the chest andlimbs of a Hercules. His dress was rich with a richnesswhich would, in England, be looked upon as akin tobad taste. Heavy bands of astrakhan were slashedacross the sleeves and fronts of his double-breastedcoat, while the deep blue cloak which was thrownover his shoulders was lined with ﬂame-colouredsilk and secured at the neck with a brooch which con-sisted of a single ﬂaming beryl. Boots which extendedhalfway up his calves, and which were trimmed atthe tops with rich brown fur, completed the impres-sion of barbaric opulence which was suggested by hiswhole appearance. He carried a broad-brimmed hatin his hand, while he wore across the upper part ofhis face, extending down past the cheekbones, a blackvizard mask, which he had apparently adjusted thatvery moment, for his hand was still raised to it as heentered. From the lower part of the face he appearedto be a man of strong character, with a thick, hanginglip, and a long, straight chin suggestive of resolutionpushed to the length of obstinacy.“You had my note?” he asked with a deep harshvoice and a strongly marked German accent. “I toldyou that I would call.” He looked from one to theother of us, as if uncertain which to address.“Pray take a seat,” said Holmes. “This is my friendand colleague, Dr. Watson, who is occasionally goodenough to help me in my cases. Whom have I thehonour to address?”“You may address me as the Count Von Kramm,a Bohemian nobleman. I understand that this gentle-man, your friend, is a man of honour and discretion,whom I may trust with a matter of the most extremeimportance. If not, I should much prefer to communi-cate with you alone.”I rose to go, but Holmes caught me by the wristand pushed me back into my chair. “It is both, ornone,” said he. “You may say before this gentlemananything which you may say to me.”The Count shrugged his broad shoulders. “Then Imust begin,” said he, “by binding you both to abso-lute secrecy for two years; at the end of that time thematter will be of no importance. At present it is nottoo much to say that it is of such weight it may havean inﬂuence upon European history.”“I promise,” said Holmes.“And I.”“You will excuse this mask,” continued ourstrange visitor. “The august person who employsme wishes his agent to be unknown to you, and Imay confess at once that the title by which I have justcalled myself is not exactly my own.”“I was aware of it,” said Holmes dryly.“The circumstances are of great delicacy, and ev-ery precaution has to be taken to quench what mightgrow to be an immense scandal and seriously com-promise one of the reigning families of Europe. Tospeak plainly, the matter implicates the great Houseof Ormstein, hereditary kings of Bohemia.”“I was also aware of that,” murmured Holmes,settling himself down in his armchair and closing hiseyes.Our visitor glanced with some apparent surpriseat the languid, lounging ﬁgure of the man who hadsettling himself down in his armchair and closing hiseyes.Our visitor glanced with some apparent surpriseat the languid, lounging ﬁgure of the man who hadbeen no doubt depicted to him as the most incisivereasoner and most energetic agent in Europe. Holmesslowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently athis gigantic client.“If your Majesty would condescend to state yourcase,” he remarked, “I should be better able to adviseyou.”The man sprang from his chair and paced up anddown the room in uncontrollable agitation. Then,with a gesture of desperation, he tore the mask fromhis face and hurled it upon the ground. “You areright,” he cried; “I am the King. Why should I at-tempt to conceal it?”7A Scandal in Bohemia“Why, indeed?” murmured Holmes. “YourMajesty had not spoken before I was aware that Iwas addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond vonOrmstein, Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein, and heredi-tary King of Bohemia.”“But you can understand,” said our strange visitor,sitting down once more and passing his hand over hishigh white forehead, “you can understand that I amnot accustomed to doing such business in my ownperson. Yet the matter was so delicate that I couldnot conﬁde it to an agent without putting myself inhis power. I have come incognito from Prague for thepurpose of consulting you.”“Then, pray consult,” said Holmes, shutting hiseyes once more.“The facts are brieﬂy these: Some ﬁve years ago,during a lengthy visit to Warsaw, I made the acquain-tance of the well-known adventuress, Irene Adler. Thename is no doubt familiar to you.”“Kindly look her up in my index, Doctor,” mur-mured Holmes without opening his eyes. For manyyears he had adopted a system of docketing all para-graphs concerning men and things, so that it wasdifﬁcult to name a subject or a person on which hecould not at once furnish information. In this case Ifound her biography sandwiched in between that ofa Hebrew rabbi and that of a staff-commander whohad written a monograph upon the deep-sea ﬁshes.“Let me see!” said Holmes. “Hum! Born inNew Jersey in the year 1858 . Contralto—hum! LaScala, hum! Prima donna Imperial Opera of War-saw—yes! Retired from operatic stage—ha! Livingin London—quite so! Your Majesty, as I understand,became entangled with this young person, wrote hersome compromising letters, and is now desirous ofgetting those letters back.”“Precisely so. But how—”“Was there a secret marriage?”“None.”“No legal papers or certiﬁcates?”“None.”“Then I fail to follow your Majesty. If this youngperson should produce her letters for blackmailing orother purposes, how is she to prove their authentic-ity?”“There is the writing.”“Pooh, pooh! Forgery.”“My private note-paper.”“Stolen.”“My own seal.”“Imitated.”“My photograph.”“Bought.”“We were both in the photograph.”“Oh, dear! That is very bad! Your Majesty hasindeed committed an indiscretion.”“I was mad—insane.”“You have compromised yourself seriously.”“I was only Crown Prince then. I was young. I ambut thirty now.”“It must be recovered.”“We have tried and failed.”“Your Majesty must pay. It must be bought.”“She will not sell.”“Stolen, then.”“Five attempts have been made. Twice burglarsin my pay ransacked her house. Once we divertedher luggage when she travelled. Twice she has beenwaylaid. There has been no result.”“No sign of it?”“Absolutely none.”Holmes laughed. “It is quite a pretty little prob-lem,” said he.“But a very serious one to me,” returned the Kingreproachfully.“Very, indeed. And what does she propose to dowith the photograph?”“To ruin me.”“But how?”“I am about to be married.”“So I have heard.”“To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen, seconddaughter of the King of Scandinavia. You may knowthe strict principles of her family. She is herself thevery soul of delicacy. A shadow of a doubt as to myconduct would bring the matter to an end.”“And Irene Adler?”“Threatens to send them the photograph. And shewill do it. I know that she will do it. You do not knowher, but she has a soul of steel. She has the face of themost beautiful of women, and the mind of the mostresolute of men. Rather than I should marry anotherwoman, there are no lengths to which she would notgo—none.”“You are sure that she has not sent it yet?”“I am sure.”8A Scandal in Bohemia“And why?”“Because she has said that she would send it onthe day when the betrothal was publicly proclaimed.That will be next Monday.”“Oh, then we have three days yet,” said Holmeswith a yawn. “That is very fortunate, as I have one ortwo matters of importance to look into just at present.Your Majesty will, of course, stay in London for thepresent?”“Certainly. You will ﬁnd me at the Langham underthe name of the Count Von Kramm.”“Then I shall drop you a line to let you know howwe progress.”“Pray do so. I shall be all anxiety.”“Then, as to money?”“You have carte blanche.”“Absolutely?”“I tell you that I would give one of the provincesof my kingdom to have that photograph.”“And for present expenses?”The King took a heavy chamois leather bag fromunder his cloak and laid it on the table.“There are three hundred pounds in gold andseven hundred in notes,” he said.Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of hisnote-book and handed it to him.“And Mademoiselle’s address?” he asked.“Is Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St. John’sWood.”Holmes took a note of it. “One other question,”said he. “Was the photograph a cabinet?”“It was.”“Then, good-night, your Majesty, and I trust thatwe shall soon have some good news for you. Andgood-night, Watson,” he added, as the wheels of theroyal brougham rolled down the street. “If you willbe good enough to call to-morrow afternoon at threeo’clock I should like to chat this little matter over withyou.”CHAPTER II.At three o’clock precisely I was at Baker Street,but Holmes had not yet returned. The landlady in-formed me that he had left the house shortly aftereight o’clock in the morning. I sat down beside theﬁre, however, with the intention of awaiting him, how-ever long he might be. I was already deeply inter-ested in his inquiry, for, though it was surroundedby none of the grim and strange features which wereassociated with the two crimes which I have alreadyrecorded, still, the nature of the case and the exaltedstation of his client gave it a character of its own. In-deed, apart from the nature of the investigation whichmy friend had on hand, there was something in hismasterly grasp of a situation, and his keen, incisivereasoning, which made it a pleasure to me to studyhis system of work, and to follow the quick, subtlemethods by which he disentangled the most inextrica-ble mysteries. So accustomed was I to his invariablesuccess that the very possibility of his failing hadceased to enter into my head.It was close upon four before the door opened,and a drunken-looking groom, ill-kempt and side-whiskered, with an inﬂamed face and disreputableclothes, walked into the room. Accustomed as I wasto my friend’s amazing powers in the use of disguises,I had to look three times before I was certain thatit was indeed he. With a nod he vanished into thebedroom, whence he emerged in ﬁve minutes tweed-suited and respectable, as of old. Putting his handsinto his pockets, he stretched out his legs in front ofthe ﬁre and laughed heartily for some minutes.“Well, really!” he cried, and then he choked andlaughed again until he was obliged to lie back, limpand helpless, in the chair.“What is it?”“It’s quite too funny. I am sure you could neverguess how I employed my morning, or what I endedby doing.”“I can’t imagine. I suppose that you have beenwatching the habits, and perhaps the house, of MissIrene Adler.”9A Scandal in Bohemia“Quite so; but the sequel was rather unusual. Iwill tell you, however. I left the house a little aftereight o’clock this morning in the character of a groomout of work. There is a wonderful sympathy andfreemasonry among horsey men. Be one of them, andyou will know all that there is to know. I soon foundBriony Lodge. It is a bijou villa, with a garden at theback, but built out in front right up to the road, twostories. Chubb lock to the door. Large sitting-roomon the right side, well furnished, with long windowsalmost to the ﬂoor, and those preposterous Englishwindow fasteners which a child could open. Behindthere was nothing remarkable, save that the passagewindow could be reached from the top of the coach-house. I walked round it and examined it closely fromevery point of view, but without noting anything elseof interest.“I then lounged down the street and found, as Iexpected, that there was a mews in a lane which runsdown by one wall of the garden. I lent the ostlersa hand in rubbing down their horses, and receivedin exchange twopence, a glass of half and half, twoﬁlls of shag tobacco, and as much information as Icould desire about Miss Adler, to say nothing of half adozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom Iwas not in the least interested, but whose biographiesI was compelled to listen to.”“And what of Irene Adler?” I asked.“Oh, she has turned all the men’s heads down inthat part. She is the daintiest thing under a bonneton this planet. So say the Serpentine-mews, to a man.She lives quietly, sings at concerts, drives out at ﬁveevery day, and returns at seven sharp for dinner. Sel-dom goes out at other times, except when she sings.Has only one male visitor, but a good deal of him.He is dark, handsome, and dashing, never calls lessthan once a day, and often twice. He is a Mr. GodfreyNorton, of the Inner Temple. See the advantages of acabman as a conﬁdant. They had driven him homea dozen times from Serpentine-mews, and knew allabout him. When I had listened to all they had to tell,I began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge oncemore, and to think over my plan of campaign.“This Godfrey Norton was evidently an importantfactor in the matter. He was a lawyer. That soundedominous. What was the relation between them, andwhat the object of his repeated visits? Was she hisclient, his friend, or his mistress? If the former, shehad probably transferred the photograph to his keep-ing. If the latter, it was less likely. On the issue ofthis question depended whether I should continuemy work at Briony Lodge, or turn my attention to thegentleman’s chambers in the Temple. It was a delicatepoint, and it widened the ﬁeld of my inquiry. I fearthat I bore you with these details, but I have to let yousee my little difﬁculties, if you are to understand thesituation.”“I am following you closely,” I answered.“I was still balancing the matter in my mind whena hansom cab drove up to Briony Lodge, and a gen-tleman sprang out. He was a remarkably handsomeman, dark, aquiline, and moustached—evidently theman of whom I had heard. He appeared to be ina great hurry, shouted to the cabman to wait, andbrushed past the maid who opened the door with theair of a man who was thoroughly at home.“He was in the house about half an hour, and Icould catch glimpses of him in the windows of thesitting-room, pacing up and down, talking excitedly,and waving his arms. Of her I could see nothing.Presently he emerged, looking even more ﬂurriedthan before. As he stepped up to the cab, he pulled agold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly,‘Drive like the devil,’ he shouted, ‘ﬁrst to Gross &Hankey’s in Regent Street, and then to the Church ofSt. Monica in the Edgeware Road. Half a guinea ifyou do it in twenty minutes!’“Away they went, and I was just wonderingwhether I should not do well to follow them when upthe lane came a neat little landau, the coachman withyou do it in twenty minutes!’“Away they went, and I was just wonderingwhether I should not do well to follow them when upthe lane came a neat little landau, the coachman withhis coat only half-buttoned, and his tie under his ear,while all the tags of his harness were sticking out ofthe buckles. It hadn’t pulled up before she shot outof the hall door and into it. I only caught a glimpseof her at the moment, but she was a lovely woman,with a face that a man might die for.“ ‘The Church of St. Monica, John,’ she cried, ‘andhalf a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.’“This was quite too good to lose, Watson. I wasjust balancing whether I should run for it, or whetherI should perch behind her landau when a cab camethrough the street. The driver looked twice at sucha shabby fare, but I jumped in before he could ob-ject. ‘The Church of St. Monica,’ said I, ‘and half asovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.’ It wastwenty-ﬁve minutes to twelve, and of course it wasclear enough what was in the wind.“My cabby drove fast. I don’t think I ever drovefaster, but the others were there before us. The caband the landau with their steaming horses were infront of the door when I arrived. I paid the manand hurried into the church. There was not a soulthere save the two whom I had followed and a sur-pliced clergyman, who seemed to be expostulating10A Scandal in Bohemiawith them. They were all three standing in a knot infront of the altar. I lounged up the side aisle like anyother idler who has dropped into a church. Suddenly,to my surprise, the three at the altar faced round tome, and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as hecould towards me.“ ‘Thank God,’ he cried. ‘You’ll do. Come! Come!’“ ‘What then?’ I asked.“ ‘Come, man, come, only three minutes, or itwon’t be legal.’“I was half-dragged up to the altar, and beforeI knew where I was I found myself mumbling re-sponses which were whispered in my ear, and vouch-ing for things of which I knew nothing, and generallyassisting in the secure tying up of Irene Adler, spin-ster, to Godfrey Norton, bachelor. It was all done inan instant, and there was the gentleman thanking meon the one side and the lady on the other, while theclergyman beamed on me in front. It was the mostpreposterous position in which I ever found myself inmy life, and it was the thought of it that started melaughing just now. It seems that there had been someinformality about their license, that the clergymanabsolutely refused to marry them without a witnessof some sort, and that my lucky appearance saved thebridegroom from having to sally out into the streets insearch of a best man. The bride gave me a sovereign,and I mean to wear it on my watch-chain in memoryof the occasion.”“This is a very unexpected turn of affairs,” said I;“and what then?”“Well, I found my plans very seriously menaced.It looked as if the pair might take an immediate de-parture, and so necessitate very prompt and energeticmeasures on my part. At the church door, however,they separated, he driving back to the Temple, andshe to her own house. ‘I shall drive out in the parkat ﬁve as usual,’ she said as she left him. I heard nomore. They drove away in different directions, and Iwent off to make my own arrangements.”“Which are?”“Some cold beef and a glass of beer,” he answered,ringing the bell. “I have been too busy to think offood, and I am likely to be busier still this evening.By the way, Doctor, I shall want your co-operation.”“I shall be delighted.”“You don’t mind breaking the law?”“Not in the least.”“Nor running a chance of arrest?”“Not in a good cause.”“Oh, the cause is excellent!”“Then I am your man.”“I was sure that I might rely on you.”“But what is it you wish?”“When Mrs. Turner has brought in the tray I willmake it clear to you. Now,” he said as he turnedhungrily on the simple fare that our landlady hadprovided, “I must discuss it while I eat, for I havenot much time. It is nearly ﬁve now. In two hourswe must be on the scene of action. Miss Irene, orMadame, rather, returns from her drive at seven. Wemust be at Briony Lodge to meet her.”“And what then?”“You must leave that to me. I have already ar-ranged what is to occur. There is only one point onwhich I must insist. You must not interfere, comewhat may. You understand?”“I am to be neutral?”“To do nothing whatever. There will probably besome small unpleasantness. Do not join in it. It willend in my being conveyed into the house. Four orﬁve minutes afterwards the sitting-room window willopen. You are to station yourself close to that openwindow.”“Yes.”“You are to watch me, for I will be visible to you.”“Yes.”“And when I raise my hand—so—you will throwinto the room what I give you to throw, and will, atthe same time, raise the cry of ﬁre. You quite followme?”“Entirely.”“It is nothing very formidable,” he said, takinga long cigar-shaped roll from his pocket. “It is anordinary plumber’s smoke-rocket, ﬁtted with a capat either end to make it self-lighting. Your task isconﬁned to that. When you raise your cry of ﬁre, itwill be taken up by quite a number of people. Youmay then walk to the end of the street, and I willrejoin you in ten minutes. I hope that I have mademyself clear?”“I am to remain neutral, to get near the window,may then walk to the end of the street, and I willrejoin you in ten minutes. I hope that I have mademyself clear?”“I am to remain neutral, to get near the window,to watch you, and at the signal to throw in this object,then to raise the cry of ﬁre, and to wait you at thecorner of the street.”“Precisely.”“Then you may entirely rely on me.”“That is excellent. I think, perhaps, it is almosttime that I prepare for the new role I have to play.”11A Scandal in BohemiaHe disappeared into his bedroom and returnedin a few minutes in the character of an amiable andsimple-minded Nonconformist clergyman. His broadblack hat, his baggy trousers, his white tie, his sympa-thetic smile, and general look of peering and benevo-lent curiosity were such as Mr. John Hare alone couldhave equalled. It was not merely that Holmes changedhis costume. His expression, his manner, his very soulseemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed.The stage lost a ﬁne actor, even as science lost an acutereasoner, when he became a specialist in crime.It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street,and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when wefound ourselves in Serpentine Avenue. It was alreadydusk, and the lamps were just being lighted as wepaced up and down in front of Briony Lodge, waitingfor the coming of its occupant. The house was justsuch as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes’ suc-cinct description, but the locality appeared to be lessprivate than I expected. On the contrary, for a smallstreet in a quiet neighbourhood, it was remarkablyanimated. There was a group of shabbily dressedmen smoking and laughing in a corner, a scissors-grinder with his wheel, two guardsmen who wereﬂirting with a nurse-girl, and several well-dressedyoung men who were lounging up and down withcigars in their mouths.“You see,” remarked Holmes, as we paced to andfro in front of the house, “this marriage rather sim-pliﬁes matters. The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now. The chances are that she wouldbe as averse to its being seen by Mr. Godfrey Nor-ton, as our client is to its coming to the eyes of hisprincess. Now the question is—Where are we to ﬁndthe photograph?”“Where, indeed?”“It is most unlikely that she carries it about withher. It is cabinet size. Too large for easy concealmentabout a woman’s dress. She knows that the King iscapable of having her waylaid and searched. Twoattempts of the sort have already been made. We maytake it, then, that she does not carry it about withher.”“Where, then?”“Her banker or her lawyer. There is that dou-ble possibility. But I am inclined to think neither.Women are naturally secretive, and they like to dotheir own secreting. Why should she hand it overto anyone else? She could trust her own guardian-ship, but she could not tell what indirect or politicalinﬂuence might be brought to bear upon a businessman. Besides, remember that she had resolved to useit within a few days. It must be where she can lay herhands upon it. It must be in her own house.”“But it has twice been burgled.”“Pshaw! They did not know how to look.”“But how will you look?”“I will not look.”“What then?”“I will get her to show me.”“But she will refuse.”“She will not be able to. But I hear the rumble ofwheels. It is her carriage. Now carry out my ordersto the letter.”As he spoke the gleam of the side-lights of a car-riage came round the curve of the avenue. It was asmart little landau which rattled up to the door ofBriony Lodge. As it pulled up, one of the loaﬁngmen at the corner dashed forward to open the doorin the hope of earning a copper, but was elbowedaway by another loafer, who had rushed up with thesame intention. A ﬁerce quarrel broke out, which wasincreased by the two guardsmen, who took sides withone of the loungers, and by the scissors-grinder, whowas equally hot upon the other side. A blow wasstruck, and in an instant the lady, who had steppedfrom her carriage, was the centre of a little knot ofﬂushed and struggling men, who struck savagely ateach other with their ﬁsts and sticks. Holmes dashedinto the crowd to protect the lady; but just as hereached her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground,with the blood running freely down his face. At hisfall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direc-tion and the loungers in the other, while a number ofbetter-dressed people, who had watched the scufﬂefall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direc-tion and the loungers in the other, while a number ofbetter-dressed people, who had watched the scufﬂewithout taking part in it, crowded in to help the ladyand to attend to the injured man. Irene Adler, as I willstill call her, had hurried up the steps; but she stoodat the top with her superb ﬁgure outlined against thelights of the hall, looking back into the street.“Is the poor gentleman much hurt?” she asked.“He is dead,” cried several voices.“No, no, there’s life in him!” shouted another. “Buthe’ll be gone before you can get him to hospital.”“He’s a brave fellow,” said a woman. “They wouldhave had the lady’s purse and watch if it hadn’t beenfor him. They were a gang, and a rough one, too. Ah,he’s breathing now.”“He can’t lie in the street. May we bring him in,marm?”“Surely. Bring him into the sitting-room. There isa comfortable sofa. This way, please!”12A Scandal in BohemiaSlowly and solemnly he was borne into BrionyLodge and laid out in the principal room, while Istill observed the proceedings from my post by thewindow. The lamps had been lit, but the blinds hadnot been drawn, so that I could see Holmes as he layupon the couch. I do not know whether he was seizedwith compunction at that moment for the part he wasplaying, but I know that I never felt more heartilyashamed of myself in my life than when I saw thebeautiful creature against whom I was conspiring, orthe grace and kindliness with which she waited uponthe injured man. And yet it would be the blackesttreachery to Holmes to draw back now from the partwhich he had intrusted to me. I hardened my heart,and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster. Af-ter all, I thought, we are not injuring her. We are butpreventing her from injuring another.Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I sawhim motion like a man who is in need of air. A maidrushed across and threw open the window. At thesame instant I saw him raise his hand and at the sig-nal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of“Fire!” The word was no sooner out of my mouththan the whole crowd of spectators, well dressed andill—gentlemen, ostlers, and servant-maids—joinedin a general shriek of “Fire!” Thick clouds of smokecurled through the room and out at the open window.I caught a glimpse of rushing ﬁgures, and a momentlater the voice of Holmes from within assuring themthat it was a false alarm. Slipping through the shout-ing crowd I made my way to the corner of the street,and in ten minutes was rejoiced to ﬁnd my friend’sarm in mine, and to get away from the scene of up-roar. He walked swiftly and in silence for some fewminutes until we had turned down one of the quietstreets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.“You did it very nicely, Doctor,” he remarked.“Nothing could have been better. It is all right.”“You have the photograph?”“I know where it is.”“And how did you ﬁnd out?”“She showed me, as I told you she would.”“I am still in the dark.”“I do not wish to make a mystery,” said he, laugh-ing. “The matter was perfectly simple. You, of course,saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice.They were all engaged for the evening.”“I guessed as much.”“Then, when the row broke out, I had a little moistred paint in the palm of my hand. I rushed forward,fell down, clapped my hand to my face, and becamea piteous spectacle. It is an old trick.”“That also I could fathom.”“Then they carried me in. She was bound to haveme in. What else could she do? And into her sitting-room, which was the very room which I suspected.It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was de-termined to see which. They laid me on a couch, Imotioned for air, they were compelled to open thewindow, and you had your chance.”“How did that help you?”“It was all-important. When a woman thinks thather house is on ﬁre, her instinct is at once to rushto the thing which she values most. It is a perfectlyoverpowering impulse, and I have more than oncetaken advantage of it. In the case of the Darlingtonsubstitution scandal it was of use to me, and also inthe Arnsworth Castle business. A married womangrabs at her baby; an unmarried one reaches for herjewel-box. Now it was clear to me that our lady ofto-day had nothing in the house more precious toher than what we are in quest of. She would rush tosecure it. The alarm of ﬁre was admirably done. Thesmoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves ofsteel. She responded beautifully. The photograph isin a recess behind a sliding panel just above the rightbell-pull. She was there in an instant, and I caughta glimpse of it as she half-drew it out. When I criedout that it was a false alarm, she replaced it, glancedat the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have notseen her since. I rose, and, making my excuses, es-caped from the house. I hesitated whether to attemptat the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have notseen her since. I rose, and, making my excuses, es-caped from the house. I hesitated whether to attemptto secure the photograph at once; but the coachmanhad come in, and as he was watching me narrowly itseemed safer to wait. A little over-precipitance mayruin all.”“And now?” I asked.“Our quest is practically ﬁnished. I shall call withthe King to-morrow, and with you, if you care to comewith us. We will be shown into the sitting-room towait for the lady, but it is probable that when shecomes she may ﬁnd neither us nor the photograph. Itmight be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it withhis own hands.”“And when will you call?”“At eight in the morning. She will not be up, sothat we shall have a clear ﬁeld. Besides, we mustbe prompt, for this marriage may mean a completechange in her life and habits. I must wire to the Kingwithout delay.”13A Scandal in BohemiaWe had reached Baker Street and had stopped atthe door. He was searching his pockets for the keywhen someone passing said:“Good-night, Mister Sherlock Holmes.”There were several people on the pavement at thetime, but the greeting appeared to come from a slimyouth in an ulster who had hurried by.“I’ve heard that voice before,” said Holmes, star-ing down the dimly lit street. “Now, I wonder whothe deuce that could have been.”CHAPTER III.I slept at Baker Street that night, and we wereengaged upon our toast and coffee in the morningwhen the King of Bohemia rushed into the room.“You have really got it!” he cried, grasping Sher-lock Holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerlyinto his face.“Not yet.”“But you have hopes?”“I have hopes.”“Then, come. I am all impatience to be gone.”“We must have a cab.”“No, my brougham is waiting.”“Then that will simplify matters.” We descendedand started off once more for Briony Lodge.“Irene Adler is married,” remarked Holmes.“Married! When?”“Yesterday.”“But to whom?”“To an English lawyer named Norton.”“But she could not love him.”“I am in hopes that she does.”“And why in hopes?”“Because it would spare your Majesty all fear offuture annoyance. If the lady loves her husband, shedoes not love your Majesty. If she does not love yourMajesty, there is no reason why she should interferewith your Majesty’s plan.”“It is true. And yet—Well! I wish she had beenof my own station! What a queen she would havemade!” He relapsed into a moody silence, which wasnot broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue.The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an el-derly woman stood upon the steps. She watched uswith a sardonic eye as we stepped from the brougham.“Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I believe?” said she.“I am Mr. Holmes,” answered my companion,looking at her with a questioning and rather startledgaze.“Indeed! My mistress told me that you were likelyto call. She left this morning with her husband by the5.15train from Charing Cross for the Continent.”“What!” Sherlock Holmes staggered back, whitewith chagrin and surprise. “Do you mean that shehas left England?”“Never to return.”“And the papers?” asked the King hoarsely. “Allis lost.”“We shall see.” He pushed past the servant andrushed into the drawing-room, followed by the Kingand myself. The furniture was scattered about inevery direction, with dismantled shelves and opendrawers, as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked thembefore her ﬂight. Holmes rushed at the bell-pull, toreback a small sliding shutter, and, plunging in hishand, pulled out a photograph and a letter. The pho-tograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress,the letter was superscribed to “Sherlock Holmes, Esq.To be left till called for.” My friend tore it open andwe all three read it together. It was dated at midnightof the preceding night and ran in this way:14A Scandal in Bohemia“My dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes :“You really did it very well. You tookme in completely. Until after the alarm ofﬁre, I had not a suspicion. But then, whenI found how I had betrayed myself, I be-gan to think. I had been warned againstyou months ago. I had been told that if theKing employed an agent it would certainlybe you. And your address had been givenme. Yet, with all this, you made me revealwhat you wanted to know. Even after I be-came suspicious, I found it hard to thinkevil of such a dear, kind old clergyman.But, you know, I have been trained as anactress myself. Male costume is nothingnew to me. I often take advantage of thefreedom which it gives. I sent John, thecoachman, to watch you, ran up stairs, gotinto my walking-clothes, as I call them,and came down just as you departed.“Well, I followed you to your door, andso made sure that I was really an ob-ject of interest to the celebrated Mr. Sher-lock Holmes. Then I, rather imprudently,wished you good-night, and started forthe Temple to see my husband.“We both thought the best resource wasﬂight, when pursued by so formidable anantagonist; so you will ﬁnd the nest emptywhen you call to-morrow. As to the pho-tograph, your client may rest in peace. Ilove and am loved by a better man thanhe. The King may do what he will withouthindrance from one whom he has cruellywronged. I keep it only to safeguard my-self, and to preserve a weapon which willalways secure me from any steps whichhe might take in the future. I leave a pho-tograph which he might care to possess;and I remain, dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes,— “Very truly yours,“Irene Norton , n´ee Adler .”“What a woman—oh, what a woman!” cried theKing of Bohemia, when we had all three read thisepistle. “Did I not tell you how quick and resoluteshe was? Would she not have made an admirablequeen? Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?”“From what I have seen of the lady she seemsindeed to be on a very different level to your Majesty,”said Holmes coldly. “I am sorry that I have not beenable to bring your Majesty’s business to a more suc-cessful conclusion.”“On the contrary, my dear sir,” cried the King;“nothing could be more successful. I know that herword is inviolate. The photograph is now as safe as ifit were in the ﬁre.”“I am glad to hear your Majesty say so.”“I am immensely indebted to you. Pray tell me inwhat way I can reward you. This ring—” He slippedan emerald snake ring from his ﬁnger and held it outupon the palm of his hand.“Your Majesty has something which I should valueeven more highly,” said Holmes.“You have but to name it.”“This photograph!”The King stared at him in amazement.“Irene’s photograph!” he cried. “Certainly, if youwish it.”“I thank your Majesty. Then there is no more tobe done in the matter. I have the honour to wishyou a very good-morning.” He bowed, and, turningaway without observing the hand which the King hadstretched out to him, he set off in my company for hischambers.And that was how a great scandal threatened to af-fect the kingdom of Bohemia, and how the best plansof Mr. Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a woman’swit. He used to make merry over the cleverness ofwomen, but I have not heard him do it of late. Andwhen he speaks of Irene Adler, or when he refers toher photograph, it is always under the honourabletitle of thewoman.15The Red-Headed LeagueTheRed-Headed LeagueIhad called upon my friend, Mr. SherlockHolmes, one day in the autumn of last yearand found him in deep conversation with avery stout, ﬂorid-faced, elderly gentlemanwith ﬁery red hair. With an apology for my intrusion,I was about to withdraw when Holmes pulled meabruptly into the room and closed the door behindme.“You could not possibly have come at a better time,my dear Watson,” he said cordially.“I was afraid that you were engaged.”“So I am. Very much so.”“Then I can wait in the next room.”“Not at all. This gentleman, Mr. Wilson, has beenmy partner and helper in many of my most success-ful cases, and I have no doubt that he will be of theutmost use to me in yours also.”The stout gentleman half rose from his chair andgave a bob of greeting, with a quick little questioningglance from his small fat-encircled eyes.“Try the settee,” said Holmes, relapsing into hisarmchair and putting his ﬁngertips together, as washis custom when in judicial moods. “I know, my dearWatson, that you share my love of all that is bizarreand outside the conventions and humdrum routineof everyday life. You have shown your relish for it bythe enthusiasm which has prompted you to chronicle,and, if you will excuse my saying so, somewhat toembellish so many of my own little adventures.”“Your cases have indeed been of the greatest inter-est to me,” I observed.“You will remember that I remarked the other day,just before we went into the very simple problempresented by Miss Mary Sutherland, that for strangeeffects and extraordinary combinations we must goto life itself, which is always far more daring than anyeffort of the imagination.”“A proposition which I took the liberty of doubt-ing.”“You did, Doctor, but none the less you must comeround to my view, for otherwise I shall keep on pil-ing fact upon fact on you until your reason breaksdown under them and acknowledges me to be right.Now, Mr. Jabez Wilson here has been good enoughto call upon me this morning, and to begin a narra-tive which promises to be one of the most singularwhich I have listened to for some time. You haveheard me remark that the strangest and most uniquethings are very often connected not with the largerbut with the smaller crimes, and occasionally, indeed,where there is room for doubt whether any positivecrime has been committed. As far as I have heard it isimpossible for me to say whether the present case isan instance of crime or not, but the course of eventsis certainly among the most singular that I have everlistened to. Perhaps, Mr. Wilson, you would havethe great kindness to recommence your narrative. Iask you not merely because my friend Dr. Watsonhas not heard the opening part but also because thepeculiar nature of the story makes me anxious to haveevery possible detail from your lips. As a rule, whenI have heard some slight indication of the course ofevents, I am able to guide myself by the thousands ofother similar cases which occur to my memory. In thepresent instance I am forced to admit that the factsare, to the best of my belief, unique.”The portly client puffed out his chest with an ap-pearance of some little pride and pulled a dirty andwrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of hisgreatcoat. As he glanced down the advertisementcolumn, with his head thrust forward and the paperﬂattened out upon his knee, I took a good look atthe man and endeavoured, after the fashion of mycompanion, to read the indications which might bepresented by his dress or appearance.I did not gain very much, however, by my inspec-tion. Our visitor bore every mark of being an averagecommonplace British tradesman, obese, pompous,and slow. He wore rather baggy grey shepherd’scheck trousers, a not over-clean black frock-coat, un-buttoned in the front, and a drab waistcoat with aheavy brassy Albert chain, and a square pierced bitof metal dangling down as an ornament. A frayedbuttoned in the front, and a drab waistcoat with aheavy brassy Albert chain, and a square pierced bitof metal dangling down as an ornament. A frayedtop-hat and a faded brown overcoat with a wrinkledvelvet collar lay upon a chair beside him. Altogether,look as I would, there was nothing remarkable aboutthe man save his blazing red head, and the expressionof extreme chagrin and discontent upon his features.Sherlock Holmes’ quick eye took in my occupa-tion, and he shook his head with a smile as he noticedmy questioning glances. “Beyond the obvious factsthat he has at some time done manual labour, that hetakes snuff, that he is a Freemason, that he has beenin China, and that he has done a considerable amountof writing lately, I can deduce nothing else.”Mr. Jabez Wilson started up in his chair, with hisforeﬁnger upon the paper, but his eyes upon my com-panion.“How, in the name of good-fortune, did you knowall that, Mr. Holmes?” he asked. “How did you know,for example, that I did manual labour. It’s as true asgospel, for I began as a ship’s carpenter.”19TheRed-Headed League“Your hands, my dear sir. Your right hand is quitea size larger than your left. You have worked with it,and the muscles are more developed.”“Well, the snuff, then, and the Freemasonry?”“I won’t insult your intelligence by telling you howI read that, especially as, rather against the strict rulesof your order, you use an arc-and-compass breastpin.”“Ah, of course, I forgot that. But the writing?”“What else can be indicated by that right cuff sovery shiny for ﬁve inches, and the left one with thesmooth patch near the elbow where you rest it uponthe desk?”“Well, but China?”“The ﬁsh that you have tattooed immediatelyabove your right wrist could only have been done inChina. I have made a small study of tattoo marks andhave even contributed to the literature of the subject.That trick of staining the ﬁshes’ scales of a delicatepink is quite peculiar to China. When, in addition, Isee a Chinese coin hanging from your watch-chain,the matter becomes even more simple.”Mr. Jabez Wilson laughed heavily. “Well, I never!”said he. “I thought at ﬁrst that you had done some-thing clever, but I see that there was nothing in it,after all.”“I begin to think, Watson,” said Holmes, “that Imake a mistake in explaining. ‘Omne ignotum pro mag-niﬁco,’ you know, and my poor little reputation, suchas it is, will suffer shipwreck if I am so candid. Canyou not ﬁnd the advertisement, Mr. Wilson?”“Yes, I have got it now,” he answered with histhick red ﬁnger planted halfway down the column.“Here it is. This is what began it all. You just read itfor yourself, sir.”I took the paper from him and read as follows:“To the Red-headed League :On ac-count of the bequest of the late EzekiahHopkins, of Lebanon, Pennsylvania, U. S.A., there is now another vacancy openwhich entitles a member of the League to asalary of £4a week for purely nominal ser-vices. All red-headed men who are soundin body and mind and above the age oftwenty-one years, are eligible. Apply inperson on Monday, at eleven o’clock, toDuncan Ross, at the ofﬁces of the League,7Pope’s Court, Fleet Street.”“What on earth does this mean?” I ejaculated afterI had twice read over the extraordinary announce-ment.Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair, as washis habit when in high spirits. “It is a little off thebeaten track, isn’t it?” said he. “And now, Mr. Wilson,off you go at scratch and tell us all about yourself,your household, and the effect which this advertise-ment had upon your fortunes. You will ﬁrst make anote, Doctor, of the paper and the date.”“It is The Morning Chronicle of April 27,1890 . Justtwo months ago.”“Very good. Now, Mr. Wilson?”“Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr.Sherlock Holmes,” said Jabez Wilson, mopping hisforehead; “I have a small pawnbroker’s business atCoburg Square, near the City. It’s not a very largeaffair, and of late years it has not done more thanjust give me a living. I used to be able to keep twoassistants, but now I only keep one; and I would havea job to pay him but that he is willing to come for halfwages so as to learn the business.”“What is the name of this obliging youth?” askedSherlock Holmes.“His name is Vincent Spaulding, and he’s not sucha youth, either. It’s hard to say his age. I should notwish a smarter assistant, Mr. Holmes; and I know verywell that he could better himself and earn twice whatI am able to give him. But, after all, if he is satisﬁed,why should I put ideas in his head?”“Why, indeed? You seem most fortunate in havingan employee who comes under the full market price.It is not a common experience among employers inthis age. I don’t know that your assistant is not asremarkable as your advertisement.”“Oh, he has his faults, too,” said Mr. Wilson.“Never was such a fellow for photography. Snappingaway with a camera when he ought to be improvinghis mind, and then diving down into the cellar like“Oh, he has his faults, too,” said Mr. Wilson.“Never was such a fellow for photography. Snappingaway with a camera when he ought to be improvinghis mind, and then diving down into the cellar likea rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures. That ishis main fault, but on the whole he’s a good worker.There’s no vice in him.”“He is still with you, I presume?”“Yes, sir. He and a girl of fourteen, who does a bitof simple cooking and keeps the place clean—that’sall I have in the house, for I am a widower and neverhad any family. We live very quietly, sir, the three ofus; and we keep a roof over our heads and pay ourdebts, if we do nothing more.20TheRed-Headed League“The ﬁrst thing that put us out was that advertise-ment. Spaulding, he came down into the ofﬁce justthis day eight weeks, with this very paper in his hand,and he says:“ ‘I wish to the Lord, Mr. Wilson, that I was ared-headed man.’“ ‘Why that?’ I asks.“ ‘Why,’ says he, ‘here’s another vacancy on theLeague of the Red-headed Men. It’s worth quite alittle fortune to any man who gets it, and I under-stand that there are more vacancies than there aremen, so that the trustees are at their wits’ end whatto do with the money. If my hair would only changecolour, here’s a nice little crib all ready for me to stepinto.’“ ‘Why, what is it, then?’ I asked. You see, Mr.Holmes, I am a very stay-at-home man, and as mybusiness came to me instead of my having to go toit, I was often weeks on end without putting my footover the door-mat. In that way I didn’t know muchof what was going on outside, and I was always gladof a bit of news.“ ‘Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?’ he asked with his eyes open.“ ‘Never.’“ ‘Why, I wonder at that, for you are eligible your-self for one of the vacancies.’“ ‘And what are they worth?’ I asked.“ ‘Oh, merely a couple of hundred a year, but thework is slight, and it need not interfere very muchwith one’s other occupations.’“Well, you can easily think that that made meprick up my ears, for the business has not been over-good for some years, and an extra couple of hundredwould have been very handy.“ ‘Tell me all about it,’ said I.“ ‘Well,’ said he, showing me the advertisement,‘you can see for yourself that the League has a vacancy,and there is the address where you should apply forparticulars. As far as I can make out, the Leaguewas founded by an American millionaire, EzekiahHopkins, who was very peculiar in his ways. He washimself red-headed, and he had a great sympathy forall red-headed men; so when he died it was foundthat he had left his enormous fortune in the hands oftrustees, with instructions to apply the interest to theproviding of easy berths to men whose hair is of thatcolour. From all I hear it is splendid pay and verylittle to do.’“ ‘But,’ said I, ‘there would be millions of red-headed men who would apply.’“ ‘Not so many as you might think,’ he answered.‘You see it is really conﬁned to Londoners, and togrown men. This American had started from Londonwhen he was young, and he wanted to do the oldtown a good turn. Then, again, I have heard it is nouse your applying if your hair is light red, or dark red,or anything but real bright, blazing, ﬁery red. Now, ifyou cared to apply, Mr. Wilson, you would just walkin; but perhaps it would hardly be worth your whileto put yourself out of the way for the sake of a fewhundred pounds.’“Now, it is a fact, gentlemen, as you may see foryourselves, that my hair is of a very full and rich tint,so that it seemed to me that if there was to be anycompetition in the matter I stood as good a chanceas any man that I had ever met. Vincent Spauldingseemed to know so much about it that I thought hemight prove useful, so I just ordered him to put upthe shutters for the day and to come right away withme. He was very willing to have a holiday, so we shutthe business up and started off for the address thatwas given us in the advertisement.“I never hope to see such a sight as that again,Mr. Holmes. From north, south, east, and west everyman who had a shade of red in his hair had trampedinto the city to answer the advertisement. Fleet Streetwas choked with red-headed folk, and Pope’s Courtlooked like a coster’s orange barrow. I should nothave thought there were so many in the whole coun-try as were brought together by that single adver-tisement. Every shade of colour they were—straw,lemon, orange, brick, Irish-setter, liver, clay; but, asSpaulding said, there were not many who had thereal vivid ﬂame-coloured tint. When I saw how manylemon, orange, brick, Irish-setter, liver, clay; but, asSpaulding said, there were not many who had thereal vivid ﬂame-coloured tint. When I saw how manywere waiting, I would have given it up in despair; butSpaulding would not hear of it. How he did it I couldnot imagine, but he pushed and pulled and butteduntil he got me through the crowd, and right up tothe steps which led to the ofﬁce. There was a doublestream upon the stair, some going up in hope, andsome coming back dejected; but we wedged in as wellas we could and soon found ourselves in the ofﬁce.”“Your experience has been a most entertainingone,” remarked Holmes as his client paused and re-freshed his memory with a huge pinch of snuff. “Praycontinue your very interesting statement.”“There was nothing in the ofﬁce but a couple ofwooden chairs and a deal table, behind which sat asmall man with a head that was even redder than21TheRed-Headed Leaguemine. He said a few words to each candidate as hecame up, and then he always managed to ﬁnd somefault in them which would disqualify them. Getting avacancy did not seem to be such a very easy matter,after all. However, when our turn came the little manwas much more favourable to me than to any of theothers, and he closed the door as we entered, so thathe might have a private word with us.“ ‘This is Mr. Jabez Wilson,’ said my assistant, ‘andhe is willing to ﬁll a vacancy in the League.’“ ‘And he is admirably suited for it,’ the other an-swered. ‘He has every requirement. I cannot recallwhen I have seen anything so ﬁne.’ He took a stepbackward, cocked his head on one side, and gazed atmy hair until I felt quite bashful. Then suddenly heplunged forward, wrung my hand, and congratulatedme warmly on my success.“ ‘It would be injustice to hesitate,’ said he. ‘Youwill, however, I am sure, excuse me for taking an obvi-ous precaution.’ With that he seized my hair in bothhis hands, and tugged until I yelled with the pain.‘There is water in your eyes,’ said he as he releasedme. ‘I perceive that all is as it should be. But we haveto be careful, for we have twice been deceived by wigsand once by paint. I could tell you tales of cobbler’swax which would disgust you with human nature.’He stepped over to the window and shouted throughit at the top of his voice that the vacancy was ﬁlled.A groan of disappointment came up from below, andthe folk all trooped away in different directions untilthere was not a red-head to be seen except my ownand that of the manager.“ ‘My name,’ said he, ‘is Mr. Duncan Ross, and Iam myself one of the pensioners upon the fund leftby our noble benefactor. Are you a married man, Mr.Wilson? Have you a family?’“I answered that I had not.“His face fell immediately.“ ‘Dear me!’ he said gravely, ‘that is very seriousindeed! I am sorry to hear you say that. The fundwas, of course, for the propagation and spread of thered-heads as well as for their maintenance. It is ex-ceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor.’“My face lengthened at this, Mr. Holmes, for Ithought that I was not to have the vacancy after all;but after thinking it over for a few minutes he saidthat it would be all right.“ ‘In the case of another,’ said he, ‘the objectionmight be fatal, but we must stretch a point in favourof a man with such a head of hair as yours. Whenshall you be able to enter upon your new duties?’“ ‘Well, it is a little awkward, for I have a businessalready,’ said I.“ ‘Oh, never mind about that, Mr. Wilson!’ saidVincent Spaulding. ‘I should be able to look after thatfor you.’“ ‘What would be the hours?’ I asked.“ ‘Ten to two.’“Now a pawnbroker’s business is mostly done ofan evening, Mr. Holmes, especially Thursday and Fri-day evening, which is just before pay-day; so it wouldsuit me very well to earn a little in the mornings. Be-sides, I knew that my assistant was a good man, andthat he would see to anything that turned up.“ ‘That would suit me very well,’ said I. ‘And thepay?’“ ‘Is £4a week.’“ ‘And the work?’“ ‘Is purely nominal.’“ ‘What do you call purely nominal?’“ ‘Well, you have to be in the ofﬁce, or at leastin the building, the whole time. If you leave, youforfeit your whole position forever. The will is veryclear upon that point. You don’t comply with theconditions if you budge from the ofﬁce during thattime.’“ ‘It’s only four hours a day, and I should not thinkof leaving,’ said I.“ ‘No excuse will avail,’ said Mr. Duncan Ross; ‘nei-ther sickness nor business nor anything else. Thereyou must stay, or you lose your billet.’“ ‘And the work?’“ ‘Is to copy out the “Encyclopaedia Britannica.”There is the ﬁrst volume of it in that press. You mustﬁnd your own ink, pens, and blotting-paper, but weprovide this table and chair. Will you be ready to-morrow?’“ ‘Certainly,’ I answered.There is the ﬁrst volume of it in that press. You mustﬁnd your own ink, pens, and blotting-paper, but weprovide this table and chair. Will you be ready to-morrow?’“ ‘Certainly,’ I answered.“ ‘Then, good-bye, Mr. Jabez Wilson, and let mecongratulate you once more on the important positionwhich you have been fortunate enough to gain.’ Hebowed me out of the room and I went home with myassistant, hardly knowing what to say or do, I was sopleased at my own good fortune.“Well, I thought over the matter all day, and byevening I was in low spirits again; for I had quitepersuaded myself that the whole affair must be somegreat hoax or fraud, though what its object might beI could not imagine. It seemed altogether past be-lief that anyone could make such a will, or that they22TheRed-Headed Leaguewould pay such a sum for doing anything so simpleas copying out the ‘Encyclopaedia Britannica.’ Vin-cent Spaulding did what he could to cheer me up, butby bedtime I had reasoned myself out of the wholething. However, in the morning I determined to havea look at it anyhow, so I bought a penny bottle of ink,and with a quill-pen, and seven sheets of foolscappaper, I started off for Pope’s Court.“Well, to my surprise and delight, everything wasas right as possible. The table was set out ready forme, and Mr. Duncan Ross was there to see that Igot fairly to work. He started me off upon the letterA, and then he left me; but he would drop in fromtime to time to see that all was right with me. At twoo’clock he bade me good-day, complimented me uponthe amount that I had written, and locked the door ofthe ofﬁce after me.“This went on day after day, Mr. Holmes, and onSaturday the manager came in and planked downfour golden sovereigns for my week’s work. It wasthe same next week, and the same the week after. Ev-ery morning I was there at ten, and every afternoonI left at two. By degrees Mr. Duncan Ross took tocoming in only once of a morning, and then, after atime, he did not come in at all. Still, of course, I neverdared to leave the room for an instant, for I was notsure when he might come, and the billet was such agood one, and suited me so well, that I would not riskthe loss of it.“Eight weeks passed away like this, and I hadwritten about Abbots and Archery and Armour andArchitecture and Attica, and hoped with diligencethat I might get on to the B’s before very long. It costme something in foolscap, and I had pretty nearlyﬁlled a shelf with my writings. And then suddenlythe whole business came to an end.”“To an end?”“Yes, sir. And no later than this morning. I wentto my work as usual at ten o’clock, but the door wasshut and locked, with a little square of cardboardhammered on to the middle of the panel with a tack.Here it is, and you can read for yourself.”He held up a piece of white cardboard about thesize of a sheet of note-paper. It read in this fashion:TheRed-headed LeagueisDissolvedOctober 9,1890 .Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt an-nouncement and the rueful face behind it, until thecomical side of the affair so completely overtoppedevery other consideration that we both burst out intoa roar of laughter.“I cannot see that there is anything very funny,”cried our client, ﬂushing up to the roots of his ﬂaminghead. “If you can do nothing better than laugh at me,I can go elsewhere.”“No, no,” cried Holmes, shoving him back into thechair from which he had half risen. “I really wouldn’tmiss your case for the world. It is most refreshinglyunusual. But there is, if you will excuse my sayingso, something just a little funny about it. Pray whatsteps did you take when you found the card upon thedoor?”“I was staggered, sir. I did not know what to do.Then I called at the ofﬁces round, but none of themseemed to know anything about it. Finally, I wentto the landlord, who is an accountant living on theground-ﬂoor, and I asked him if he could tell me whathad become of the Red-headed League. He said thathe had never heard of any such body. Then I askedhim who Mr. Duncan Ross was. He answered thatthe name was new to him.“ ‘Well,’ said I, ‘the gentleman at No. 4.’“ ‘What, the red-headed man?’“ ‘Yes.’“ ‘Oh,’ said he, ‘his name was William Morris. Hewas a solicitor and was using my room as a temporaryconvenience until his new premises were ready. Hemoved out yesterday.’“ ‘Where could I ﬁnd him?’“ ‘Oh, at his new ofﬁces. He did tell me the ad-dress. Yes, 17King Edward Street, near St. Paul’s.’“I started off, Mr. Holmes, but when I got to thataddress it was a manufactory of artiﬁcial knee-caps,and no one in it had ever heard of either Mr. WilliamMorris or Mr. Duncan Ross.”“And what did you do then?” asked Holmes.address it was a manufactory of artiﬁcial knee-caps,and no one in it had ever heard of either Mr. WilliamMorris or Mr. Duncan Ross.”“And what did you do then?” asked Holmes.“I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square, and I tookthe advice of my assistant. But he could not helpme in any way. He could only say that if I waitedI should hear by post. But that was not quite goodenough, Mr. Holmes. I did not wish to lose such aplace without a struggle, so, as I had heard that youwere good enough to give advice to poor folk whowere in need of it, I came right away to you.”“And you did very wisely,” said Holmes. “Yourcase is an exceedingly remarkable one, and I shall be23TheRed-Headed Leaguehappy to look into it. From what you have told me Ithink that it is possible that graver issues hang fromit than might at ﬁrst sight appear.”“Grave enough!” said Mr. Jabez Wilson. “Why, Ihave lost four pound a week.”“As far as you are personally concerned,” re-marked Holmes, “I do not see that you have anygrievance against this extraordinary league. On thecontrary, you are, as I understand, richer by some £30,to say nothing of the minute knowledge which youhave gained on every subject which comes under theletter A. You have lost nothing by them.”“No, sir. But I want to ﬁnd out about them, andwho they are, and what their object was in playingthis prank—if it was a prank—upon me. It was apretty expensive joke for them, for it cost them twoand thirty pounds.”“We shall endeavour to clear up these points foryou. And, ﬁrst, one or two questions, Mr. Wilson.This assistant of yours who ﬁrst called your attentionto the advertisement—how long had he been withyou?”“About a month then.”“How did he come?”“In answer to an advertisement.”“Was he the only applicant?”“No, I had a dozen.”“Why did you pick him?”“Because he was handy and would come cheap.”“At half-wages, in fact.”“Yes.”“What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?”“Small, stout-built, very quick in his ways, no hairon his face, though he’s not short of thirty. Has awhite splash of acid upon his forehead.”Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excite-ment. “I thought as much,” said he. “Have you everobserved that his ears are pierced for earrings?”“Yes, sir. He told me that a gipsy had done it forhim when he was a lad.”“Hum!” said Holmes, sinking back in deepthought. “He is still with you?”“Oh, yes, sir; I have only just left him.”“And has your business been attended to in yourabsence?”“Nothing to complain of, sir. There’s never verymuch to do of a morning.”“That will do, Mr. Wilson. I shall be happy to giveyou an opinion upon the subject in the course of aday or two. To-day is Saturday, and I hope that byMonday we may come to a conclusion.”“Well, Watson,” said Holmes when our visitor hadleft us, “what do you make of it all?”“I make nothing of it,” I answered frankly. “It is amost mysterious business.”“As a rule,” said Holmes, “the more bizarre athing is the less mysterious it proves to be. It is yourcommonplace, featureless crimes which are really puz-zling, just as a commonplace face is the most difﬁcultto identify. But I must be prompt over this matter.”“What are you going to do, then?” I asked.“To smoke,” he answered. “It is quite a three pipeproblem, and I beg that you won’t speak to me forﬁfty minutes.” He curled himself up in his chair, withhis thin knees drawn up to his hawk-like nose, andthere he sat with his eyes closed and his black claypipe thrusting out like the bill of some strange bird.I had come to the conclusion that he had droppedasleep, and indeed was nodding myself, when hesuddenly sprang out of his chair with the gesture ofa man who has made up his mind and put his pipedown upon the mantelpiece.“Sarasate plays at the St. James’s Hall this after-noon,” he remarked. “What do you think, Watson?Could your patients spare you for a few hours?”“I have nothing to do to-day. My practice is neververy absorbing.”“Then put on your hat and come. I am goingthrough the City ﬁrst, and we can have some lunchon the way. I observe that there is a good deal of Ger-man music on the programme, which is rather moreto my taste than Italian or French. It is introspective,and I want to introspect. Come along!”We travelled by the Underground as far as Alders-gate; and a short walk took us to Saxe-Coburg Square,the scene of the singular story which we had listenedto in the morning. It was a poky, little, shabby-genteelplace, where four lines of dingy two-storied brickhouses looked out into a small railed-in enclosure,where a lawn of weedy grass and a few clumpsplace, where four lines of dingy two-storied brickhouses looked out into a small railed-in enclosure,where a lawn of weedy grass and a few clumpsof faded laurel-bushes made a hard ﬁght against asmoke-laden and uncongenial atmosphere. Threegilt balls and a brown board with “Jabez Wilson ”in white letters, upon a corner house, announcedthe place where our red-headed client carried onhis business. Sherlock Holmes stopped in front ofit with his head on one side and looked it all over,with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids.Then he walked slowly up the street, and then down24TheRed-Headed Leagueagain to the corner, still looking keenly at the houses.Finally he returned to the pawnbroker’s, and, hav-ing thumped vigorously upon the pavement with hisstick two or three times, he went up to the door andknocked. It was instantly opened by a bright-looking,clean-shaven young fellow, who asked him to step in.“Thank you,” said Holmes, “I only wished to askyou how you would go from here to the Strand.”“Third right, fourth left,” answered the assistantpromptly, closing the door.“Smart fellow, that,” observed Holmes as wewalked away. “He is, in my judgment, the fourthsmartest man in London, and for daring I am not surethat he has not a claim to be third. I have knownsomething of him before.”“Evidently,” said I, “Mr. Wilson’s assistant countsfor a good deal in this mystery of the Red-headedLeague. I am sure that you inquired your way merelyin order that you might see him.”“Not him.”“What then?”“The knees of his trousers.”“And what did you see?”“What I expected to see.”“Why did you beat the pavement?”“My dear doctor, this is a time for observation,not for talk. We are spies in an enemy’s country. Weknow something of Saxe-Coburg Square. Let us nowexplore the parts which lie behind it.”The road in which we found ourselves as weturned round the corner from the retired Saxe-CoburgSquare presented as great a contrast to it as the frontof a picture does to the back. It was one of the mainarteries which conveyed the trafﬁc of the City to thenorth and west. The roadway was blocked with theimmense stream of commerce ﬂowing in a double tideinward and outward, while the footpaths were blackwith the hurrying swarm of pedestrians. It was difﬁ-cult to realise as we looked at the line of ﬁne shopsand stately business premises that they really abuttedon the other side upon the faded and stagnant squarewhich we had just quitted.“Let me see,” said Holmes, standing at the cornerand glancing along the line, “I should like just to re-member the order of the houses here. It is a hobby ofmine to have an exact knowledge of London. There isMortimer’s, the tobacconist, the little newspaper shop,the Coburg branch of the City and Suburban Bank,the Vegetarian Restaurant, and McFarlane’s carriage-building depot. That carries us right on to the otherblock. And now, Doctor, we’ve done our work, so it’stime we had some play. A sandwich and a cup ofcoffee, and then off to violin-land, where all is sweet-ness and delicacy and harmony, and there are nored-headed clients to vex us with their conundrums.”My friend was an enthusiastic musician, beinghimself not only a very capable performer but a com-poser of no ordinary merit. All the afternoon hesat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfect happi-ness, gently waving his long, thin ﬁngers in time tothe music, while his gently smiling face and his lan-guid, dreamy eyes were as unlike those of Holmesthe sleuth-hound, Holmes the relentless, keen-witted,ready-handed criminal agent, as it was possible to con-ceive. In his singular character the dual nature alter-nately asserted itself, and his extreme exactness andastuteness represented, as I have often thought, thereaction against the poetic and contemplative moodwhich occasionally predominated in him. The swingof his nature took him from extreme languor to de-vouring energy; and, as I knew well, he was never sotruly formidable as when, for days on end, he hadbeen lounging in his armchair amid his improvisa-tions and his black-letter editions. Then it was that thelust of the chase would suddenly come upon him, andthat his brilliant reasoning power would rise to thelevel of intuition, until those who were unacquaintedwith his methods would look askance at him as on aman whose knowledge was not that of other mortals.When I saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in themusic at St. James’s Hall I felt that an evil time mightbe coming upon those whom he had set himself toWhen I saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in themusic at St. James’s Hall I felt that an evil time mightbe coming upon those whom he had set himself tohunt down.“You want to go home, no doubt, Doctor,” heremarked as we emerged.“Yes, it would be as well.”“And I have some business to do which will takesome hours. This business at Coburg Square is seri-ous.”“Why serious?”“A considerable crime is in contemplation. I haveevery reason to believe that we shall be in time tostop it. But to-day being Saturday rather complicatesmatters. I shall want your help to-night.”“At what time?”“Ten will be early enough.”“I shall be at Baker Street at ten.”“Very well. And, I say, Doctor, there may be somelittle danger, so kindly put your army revolver in yourpocket.” He waved his hand, turned on his heel, anddisappeared in an instant among the crowd.25TheRed-Headed LeagueI trust that I am not more dense than my neigh-bours, but I was always oppressed with a sense of myown stupidity in my dealings with Sherlock Holmes.Here I had heard what he had heard, I had seen whathe had seen, and yet from his words it was evidentthat he saw clearly not only what had happened butwhat was about to happen, while to me the wholebusiness was still confused and grotesque. As I drovehome to my house in Kensington I thought over itall, from the extraordinary story of the red-headedcopier of the “Encyclopaedia” down to the visit toSaxe-Coburg Square, and the ominous words withwhich he had parted from me. What was this noctur-nal expedition, and why should I go armed? Wherewere we going, and what were we to do? I had thehint from Holmes that this smooth-faced pawnbro-ker’s assistant was a formidable man—a man whomight play a deep game. I tried to puzzle it out, butgave it up in despair and set the matter aside untilnight should bring an explanation.It was a quarter-past nine when I started fromhome and made my way across the Park, and sothrough Oxford Street to Baker Street. Two hansomswere standing at the door, and as I entered the pas-sage I heard the sound of voices from above. Onentering his room I found Holmes in animated con-versation with two men, one of whom I recognised asPeter Jones, the ofﬁcial police agent, while the otherwas a long, thin, sad-faced man, with a very shiny hatand oppressively respectable frock-coat.“Ha! Our party is complete,” said Holmes, button-ing up his pea-jacket and taking his heavy huntingcrop from the rack. “Watson, I think you know Mr.Jones, of Scotland Yard? Let me introduce you toMr. Merryweather, who is to be our companion into-night’s adventure.”“We’re hunting in couples again, Doctor, you see,”said Jones in his consequential way. “Our friend hereis a wonderful man for starting a chase. All he wantsis an old dog to help him to do the running down.”“I hope a wild goose may not prove to be the endof our chase,” observed Mr. Merryweather gloomily.“You may place considerable conﬁdence in Mr.Holmes, sir,” said the police agent loftily. “He has hisown little methods, which are, if he won’t mind mysaying so, just a little too theoretical and fantastic, buthe has the makings of a detective in him. It is not toomuch to say that once or twice, as in that business ofthe Sholto murder and the Agra treasure, he has beenmore nearly correct than the ofﬁcial force.”“Oh, if you say so, Mr. Jones, it is all right,” saidthe stranger with deference. “Still, I confess that Imiss my rubber. It is the ﬁrst Saturday night forseven-and-twenty years that I have not had my rub-ber.”“I think you will ﬁnd,” said Sherlock Holmes,“that you will play for a higher stake to-night thanyou have ever done yet, and that the play will be moreexciting. For you, Mr. Merryweather, the stake will besome £30,000; and for you, Jones, it will be the manupon whom you wish to lay your hands.”“John Clay, the murderer, thief, smasher, andforger. He’s a young man, Mr. Merryweather, buthe is at the head of his profession, and I would ratherhave my bracelets on him than on any criminal inLondon. He’s a remarkable man, is young John Clay.His grandfather was a royal duke, and he himself hasbeen to Eton and Oxford. His brain is as cunning ashis ﬁngers, and though we meet signs of him at everyturn, we never know where to ﬁnd the man himself.He’ll crack a crib in Scotland one week, and be raisingmoney to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next.I’ve been on his track for years and have never seteyes on him yet.”“I hope that I may have the pleasure of introduc-ing you to-night. I’ve had one or two little turns alsowith Mr. John Clay, and I agree with you that he is atthe head of his profession. It is past ten, however, andquite time that we started. If you two will take theﬁrst hansom, Watson and I will follow in the second.”the head of his profession. It is past ten, however, andquite time that we started. If you two will take theﬁrst hansom, Watson and I will follow in the second.”Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative dur-ing the long drive and lay back in the cab hummingthe tunes which he had heard in the afternoon. Werattled through an endless labyrinth of gas-lit streetsuntil we emerged into Farrington Street.“We are close there now,” my friend remarked.“This fellow Merryweather is a bank director, andpersonally interested in the matter. I thought it aswell to have Jones with us also. He is not a bad fellow,though an absolute imbecile in his profession. Hehas one positive virtue. He is as brave as a bulldogand as tenacious as a lobster if he gets his claws uponanyone. Here we are, and they are waiting for us.”We had reached the same crowded thoroughfarein which we had found ourselves in the morning. Ourcabs were dismissed, and, following the guidance ofMr. Merryweather, we passed down a narrow passageand through a side door, which he opened for us.Within there was a small corridor, which ended in avery massive iron gate. This also was opened, and leddown a ﬂight of winding stone steps, which termi-nated at another formidable gate. Mr. Merryweatherstopped to light a lantern, and then conducted usdown a dark, earth-smelling passage, and so, after26TheRed-Headed Leagueopening a third door, into a huge vault or cellar, whichwas piled all round with crates and massive boxes.“You are not very vulnerable from above,” Holmesremarked as he held up the lantern and gazed abouthim.“Nor from below,” said Mr. Merryweather, strik-ing his stick upon the ﬂags which lined the ﬂoor.“Why, dear me, it sounds quite hollow!” he remarked,looking up in surprise.“I must really ask you to be a little more quiet!”said Holmes severely. “You have already imperilledthe whole success of our expedition. Might I beg thatyou would have the goodness to sit down upon oneof those boxes, and not to interfere?”The solemn Mr. Merryweather perched himselfupon a crate, with a very injured expression upon hisface, while Holmes fell upon his knees upon the ﬂoorand, with the lantern and a magnifying lens, began toexamine minutely the cracks between the stones. Afew seconds sufﬁced to satisfy him, for he sprang tohis feet again and put his glass in his pocket.“We have at least an hour before us,” he remarked,“for they can hardly take any steps until the goodpawnbroker is safely in bed. Then they will not lose aminute, for the sooner they do their work the longertime they will have for their escape. We are at present,Doctor—as no doubt you have divined—in the cellarof the City branch of one of the principal Londonbanks. Mr. Merryweather is the chairman of directors,and he will explain to you that there are reasons whythe more daring criminals of London should take aconsiderable interest in this cellar at present.”“It is our French gold,” whispered the director.“We have had several warnings that an attempt mightbe made upon it.”“Your French gold?”“Yes. We had occasion some months ago tostrengthen our resources and borrowed for that pur-pose 30,000napoleons from the Bank of France. It hasbecome known that we have never had occasion to un-pack the money, and that it is still lying in our cellar.The crate upon which I sit contains 2,000napoleonspacked between layers of lead foil. Our reserve ofbullion is much larger at present than is usually keptin a single branch ofﬁce, and the directors have hadmisgivings upon the subject.”“Which were very well justiﬁed,” observedHolmes. “And now it is time that we arranged ourlittle plans. I expect that within an hour matters willcome to a head. In the meantime Mr. Merryweather,we must put the screen over that dark lantern.”“And sit in the dark?”“I am afraid so. I had brought a pack of cards inmy pocket, and I thought that, as we were a partiecarr´ee, you might have your rubber after all. But I seethat the enemy’s preparations have gone so far thatwe cannot risk the presence of a light. And, ﬁrst ofall, we must choose our positions. These are daringmen, and though we shall take them at a disadvan-tage, they may do us some harm unless we are careful.I shall stand behind this crate, and do you concealyourselves behind those. Then, when I ﬂash a lightupon them, close in swiftly. If they ﬁre, Watson, haveno compunction about shooting them down.”I placed my revolver, cocked, upon the top of thewooden case behind which I crouched. Holmes shotthe slide across the front of his lantern and left us inpitch darkness—such an absolute darkness as I havenever before experienced. The smell of hot metal re-mained to assure us that the light was still there, readyto ﬂash out at a moment’s notice. To me, with mynerves worked up to a pitch of expectancy, there wassomething depressing and subduing in the suddengloom, and in the cold dank air of the vault.“They have but one retreat,” whispered Holmes.“That is back through the house into Saxe-CoburgSquare. I hope that you have done what I asked you,Jones?”“I have an inspector and two ofﬁcers waiting atthe front door.”“Then we have stopped all the holes. And now wemust be silent and wait.”What a time it seemed! From comparing notesJones?”“I have an inspector and two ofﬁcers waiting atthe front door.”“Then we have stopped all the holes. And now wemust be silent and wait.”What a time it seemed! From comparing notesafterwards it was but an hour and a quarter, yet itappeared to me that the night must have almost goneand the dawn be breaking above us. My limbs wereweary and stiff, for I feared to change my position;yet my nerves were worked up to the highest pitchof tension, and my hearing was so acute that I couldnot only hear the gentle breathing of my companions,but I could distinguish the deeper, heavier in-breathof the bulky Jones from the thin, sighing note of thebank director. From my position I could look over thecase in the direction of the ﬂoor. Suddenly my eyescaught the glint of a light.At ﬁrst it was but a lurid spark upon the stonepavement. Then it lengthened out until it became ayellow line, and then, without any warning or sound,a gash seemed to open and a hand appeared, a white,almost womanly hand, which felt about in the centreof the little area of light. For a minute or more thehand, with its writhing ﬁngers, protruded out of the27TheRed-Headed Leagueﬂoor. Then it was withdrawn as suddenly as it ap-peared, and all was dark again save the single luridspark which marked a chink between the stones.Its disappearance, however, was but momentary.With a rending, tearing sound, one of the broad, whitestones turned over upon its side and left a square,gaping hole, through which streamed the light ofa lantern. Over the edge there peeped a clean-cut,boyish face, which looked keenly about it, and then,with a hand on either side of the aperture, drew itselfshoulder-high and waist-high, until one knee restedupon the edge. In another instant he stood at the sideof the hole and was hauling after him a companion,lithe and small like himself, with a pale face and ashock of very red hair.“It’s all clear,” he whispered. “Have you the chiseland the bags? Great Scott! Jump, Archie, jump, andI’ll swing for it!”Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized theintruder by the collar. The other dived down thehole, and I heard the sound of rending cloth as Jonesclutched at his skirts. The light ﬂashed upon thebarrel of a revolver, but Holmes’ hunting crop camedown on the man’s wrist, and the pistol clinked uponthe stone ﬂoor.“It’s no use, John Clay,” said Holmes blandly. “Youhave no chance at all.”“So I see,” the other answered with the utmostcoolness. “I fancy that my pal is all right, though Isee you have got his coat-tails.”“There are three men waiting for him at the door,”said Holmes.“Oh, indeed! You seem to have done the thingvery completely. I must compliment you.”“And I you,” Holmes answered. “Your red-headedidea was very new and effective.”“You’ll see your pal again presently,” said Jones.“He’s quicker at climbing down holes than I am. Justhold out while I ﬁx the derbies.”“I beg that you will not touch me with your ﬁlthyhands,” remarked our prisoner as the handcuffs clat-tered upon his wrists. “You may not be aware thatI have royal blood in my veins. Have the goodness,also, when you address me always to say ‘sir’ and‘please.’ ”“All right,” said Jones with a stare and a snigger.“Well, would you please, sir, march upstairs, wherewe can get a cab to carry your Highness to the police-station?”“That is better,” said John Clay serenely. He madea sweeping bow to the three of us and walked quietlyoff in the custody of the detective.“Really, Mr. Holmes,” said Mr. Merryweather aswe followed them from the cellar, “I do not knowhow the bank can thank you or repay you. There isno doubt that you have detected and defeated in themost complete manner one of the most determinedattempts at bank robbery that have ever come withinmy experience.”“I have had one or two little scores of my ownto settle with Mr. John Clay,” said Holmes. “I havebeen at some small expense over this matter, whichI shall expect the bank to refund, but beyond that Iam amply repaid by having had an experience whichis in many ways unique, and by hearing the veryremarkable narrative of the Red-headed League.”“You see, Watson,” he explained in the early hoursof the morning as we sat over a glass of whisky andsoda in Baker Street, “it was perfectly obvious fromthe ﬁrst that the only possible object of this ratherfantastic business of the advertisement of the League,and the copying of the ‘Encyclopaedia,’ must be toget this not over-bright pawnbroker out of the wayfor a number of hours every day. It was a curiousway of managing it, but, really, it would be difﬁcult tosuggest a better. The method was no doubt suggestedto Clay’s ingenious mind by the colour of his accom-plice’s hair. The £4a week was a lure which mustdraw him, and what was it to them, who were playingfor thousands? They put in the advertisement, onerogue has the temporary ofﬁce, the other rogue incitesthe man to apply for it, and together they manage tosecure his absence every morning in the week. Fromthe time that I heard of the assistant having come forthe man to apply for it, and together they manage tosecure his absence every morning in the week. Fromthe time that I heard of the assistant having come forhalf wages, it was obvious to me that he had somestrong motive for securing the situation.”“But how could you guess what the motive was?”“Had there been women in the house, I shouldhave suspected a mere vulgar intrigue. That, however,was out of the question. The man’s business was asmall one, and there was nothing in his house whichcould account for such elaborate preparations, andsuch an expenditure as they were at. It must, then,be something out of the house. What could it be? Ithought of the assistant’s fondness for photography,and his trick of vanishing into the cellar. The cellar!There was the end of this tangled clue. Then I madeinquiries as to this mysterious assistant and foundthat I had to deal with one of the coolest and mostdaring criminals in London. He was doing something28TheRed-Headed Leaguein the cellar—something which took many hours aday for months on end. What could it be, once more?I could think of nothing save that he was running atunnel to some other building.“So far I had got when we went to visit the sceneof action. I surprised you by beating upon the pave-ment with my stick. I was ascertaining whether thecellar stretched out in front or behind. It was notin front. Then I rang the bell, and, as I hoped, theassistant answered it. We have had some skirmishes,but we had never set eyes upon each other before.I hardly looked at his face. His knees were what Iwished to see. You must yourself have remarked howworn, wrinkled, and stained they were. They spoke ofthose hours of burrowing. The only remaining pointwas what they were burrowing for. I walked roundthe corner, saw the City and Suburban Bank abuttedon our friend’s premises, and felt that I had solvedmy problem. When you drove home after the concertI called upon Scotland Yard and upon the chairmanof the bank directors, with the result that you haveseen.”“And how could you tell that they would maketheir attempt to-night?” I asked.“Well, when they closed their League ofﬁces thatwas a sign that they cared no longer about Mr. JabezWilson’s presence—in other words, that they had com-pleted their tunnel. But it was essential that theyshould use it soon, as it might be discovered, or thebullion might be removed. Saturday would suit thembetter than any other day, as it would give them twodays for their escape. For all these reasons I expectedthem to come to-night.”“You reasoned it out beautifully,” I exclaimed inunfeigned admiration. “It is so long a chain, and yetevery link rings true.”“It saved me from ennui,” he answered, yawning.“Alas! I already feel it closing in upon me. My life isspent in one long effort to escape from the common-places of existence. These little problems help me todo so.”“And you are a benefactor of the race,” said I.He shrugged his shoulders. “Well, perhaps, afterall, it is of some little use,” he remarked. “ ‘L’hommec’est rien—l’oeuvre c’est tout,’ as Gustave Flaubertwrote to George Sand.”29A Case of IdentityA Case of IdentityMy dear fellow,” said Sherlock Holmes aswe sat on either side of the ﬁre in hislodgings at Baker Street, “life is inﬁnitelystranger than anything which the mind ofman could invent. We would not dare to conceivethe things which are really mere commonplaces ofexistence. If we could ﬂy out of that window handin hand, hover over this great city, gently removethe roofs, and peep in at the queer things which aregoing on, the strange coincidences, the plannings,the cross-purposes, the wonderful chains of events,working through generations, and leading to the mostoutr ´e results, it would make all ﬁction with its con-ventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale andunproﬁtable.”“And yet I am not convinced of it,” I answered.“The cases which come to light in the papers are, asa rule, bald enough, and vulgar enough. We have inour police reports realism pushed to its extreme lim-its, and yet the result is, it must be confessed, neitherfascinating nor artistic.”“A certain selection and discretion must be used inproducing a realistic effect,” remarked Holmes. “Thisis wanting in the police report, where more stress islaid, perhaps, upon the platitudes of the magistratethan upon the details, which to an observer containthe vital essence of the whole matter. Depend upon it,there is nothing so unnatural as the commonplace.”I smiled and shook my head. “I can quite un-derstand your thinking so.” I said. “Of course, inyour position of unofﬁcial adviser and helper to ev-erybody who is absolutely puzzled, throughout threecontinents, you are brought in contact with all thatis strange and bizarre. But here”—I picked up themorning paper from the ground—“let us put it to apractical test. Here is the ﬁrst heading upon which Icome. ‘A husband’s cruelty to his wife.’ There is halfa column of print, but I know without reading it thatit is all perfectly familiar to me. There is, of course,the other woman, the drink, the push, the blow, thebruise, the sympathetic sister or landlady. The crudestof writers could invent nothing more crude.”“Indeed, your example is an unfortunate one foryour argument,” said Holmes, taking the paper andglancing his eye down it. “This is the Dundas sep-aration case, and, as it happens, I was engaged inclearing up some small points in connection withit. The husband was a teetotaler, there was no otherwoman, and the conduct complained of was that hehad drifted into the habit of winding up every mealby taking out his false teeth and hurling them at hiswife, which, you will allow, is not an action likely tooccur to the imagination of the average story-teller.Take a pinch of snuff, Doctor, and acknowledge that Ihave scored over you in your example.”He held out his snuffbox of old gold, with a greatamethyst in the centre of the lid. Its splendour was insuch contrast to his homely ways and simple life thatI could not help commenting upon it.“Ah,” said he, “I forgot that I had not seen youfor some weeks. It is a little souvenir from the Kingof Bohemia in return for my assistance in the case ofthe Irene Adler papers.”“And the ring?” I asked, glancing at a remarkablebrilliant which sparkled upon his ﬁnger.“It was from the reigning family of Holland,though the matter in which I served them was ofsuch delicacy that I cannot conﬁde it even to you,who have been good enough to chronicle one or twoof my little problems.”“And have you any on hand just now?” I askedwith interest.“Some ten or twelve, but none which present anyfeature of interest. They are important, you under-stand, without being interesting. Indeed, I have foundthat it is usually in unimportant matters that there isa ﬁeld for the observation, and for the quick analysisof cause and effect which gives the charm to an inves-tigation. The larger crimes are apt to be the simpler,for the bigger the crime the more obvious, as a rule, isof cause and effect which gives the charm to an inves-tigation. The larger crimes are apt to be the simpler,for the bigger the crime the more obvious, as a rule, isthe motive. In these cases, save for one rather intricatematter which has been referred to me from Marseilles,there is nothing which presents any features of inter-est. It is possible, however, that I may have somethingbetter before very many minutes are over, for this isone of my clients, or I am much mistaken.”He had risen from his chair and was standing be-tween the parted blinds gazing down into the dullneutral-tinted London street. Looking over his shoul-der, I saw that on the pavement opposite there stooda large woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck,and a large curling red feather in a broad-brimmedhat which was tilted in a coquettish Duchess of De-vonshire fashion over her ear. From under this greatpanoply she peeped up in a nervous, hesitating fash-ion at our windows, while her body oscillated back-ward and forward, and her ﬁngers ﬁdgeted with herglove buttons. Suddenly, with a plunge, as of theswimmer who leaves the bank, she hurried across theroad, and we heard the sharp clang of the bell.“I have seen those symptoms before,” said Holmes,throwing his cigarette into the ﬁre. “Oscillation uponthe pavement always means an affaire de coeur . Shewould like advice, but is not sure that the matter is33A Case of Identitynot too delicate for communication. And yet evenhere we may discriminate. When a woman has beenseriously wronged by a man she no longer oscillates,and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire. Herewe may take it that there is a love matter, but that themaiden is not so much angry as perplexed, or grieved.But here she comes in person to resolve our doubts.”As he spoke there was a tap at the door, and theboy in buttons entered to announce Miss Mary Suther-land, while the lady herself loomed behind his smallblack ﬁgure like a full-sailed merchant-man behinda tiny pilot boat. Sherlock Holmes welcomed herwith the easy courtesy for which he was remarkable,and, having closed the door and bowed her into anarmchair, he looked her over in the minute and yetabstracted fashion which was peculiar to him.“Do you not ﬁnd,” he said, “that with your shortsight it is a little trying to do so much typewriting?”“I did at ﬁrst,” she answered, “but now I knowwhere the letters are without looking.” Then, sud-denly realising the full purport of his words, she gavea violent start and looked up, with fear and astonish-ment upon her broad, good-humoured face. “You’veheard about me, Mr. Holmes,” she cried, “else howcould you know all that?”“Never mind,” said Holmes, laughing; “it is mybusiness to know things. Perhaps I have trained my-self to see what others overlook. If not, why shouldyou come to consult me?”“I came to you, sir, because I heard of you fromMrs. Etherege, whose husband you found so easywhen the police and everyone had given him up fordead. Oh, Mr. Holmes, I wish you would do as muchfor me. I’m not rich, but still I have a hundred a yearin my own right, besides the little that I make by themachine, and I would give it all to know what hasbecome of Mr. Hosmer Angel.”“Why did you come away to consult me in such ahurry?” asked Sherlock Holmes, with his ﬁnger-tipstogether and his eyes to the ceiling.Again a startled look came over the somewhat vac-uous face of Miss Mary Sutherland. “Yes, I did bangout of the house,” she said, “for it made me angryto see the easy way in which Mr. Windibank—thatis, my father—took it all. He would not go to thepolice, and he would not go to you, and so at last, ashe would do nothing and kept on saying that therewas no harm done, it made me mad, and I just onwith my things and came right away to you.”“Your father,” said Holmes, “your stepfather,surely, since the name is different.”“Yes, my stepfather. I call him father, though itsounds funny, too, for he is only ﬁve years and twomonths older than myself.”“And your mother is alive?”“Oh, yes, mother is alive and well. I wasn’t bestpleased, Mr. Holmes, when she married again so soonafter father’s death, and a man who was nearly ﬁfteenyears younger than herself. Father was a plumber inthe Tottenham Court Road, and he left a tidy businessbehind him, which mother carried on with Mr. Hardy,the foreman; but when Mr. Windibank came he madeher sell the business, for he was very superior, beinga traveller in wines. They got £4700 for the goodwilland interest, which wasn’t near as much as fathercould have got if he had been alive.”I had expected to see Sherlock Holmes impatientunder this rambling and inconsequential narrative,but, on the contrary, he had listened with the greatestconcentration of attention.“Your own little income,” he asked, “does it comeout of the business?”“Oh, no, sir. It is quite separate and was left meby my uncle Ned in Auckland. It is in New Zealandstock, paying 41/2per cent. Two thousand ﬁve hun-dred pounds was the amount, but I can only touchthe interest.”“You interest me extremely,” said Holmes. “Andsince you draw so large a sum as a hundred a year,with what you earn into the bargain, you no doubttravel a little and indulge yourself in every way. Ibelieve that a single lady can get on very nicely uponan income of about £60.”with what you earn into the bargain, you no doubttravel a little and indulge yourself in every way. Ibelieve that a single lady can get on very nicely uponan income of about £60.”“I could do with much less than that, Mr. Holmes,but you understand that as long as I live at homeI don’t wish to be a burden to them, and so theyhave the use of the money just while I am stayingwith them. Of course, that is only just for the time.Mr. Windibank draws my interest every quarter andpays it over to mother, and I ﬁnd that I can do prettywell with what I earn at typewriting. It brings metwopence a sheet, and I can often do from ﬁfteen totwenty sheets in a day.”“You have made your position very clear to me,”said Holmes. “This is my friend, Dr. Watson, be-fore whom you can speak as freely as before myself.Kindly tell us now all about your connection with Mr.Hosmer Angel.”A ﬂush stole over Miss Sutherland’s face, and shepicked nervously at the fringe of her jacket. “I methim ﬁrst at the gasﬁtters’ ball,” she said. “They usedto send father tickets when he was alive, and then34A Case of Identityafterwards they remembered us, and sent them tomother. Mr. Windibank did not wish us to go. Henever did wish us to go anywhere. He would getquite mad if I wanted so much as to join a Sunday-school treat. But this time I was set on going, andI would go; for what right had he to prevent? Hesaid the folk were not ﬁt for us to know, when allfather’s friends were to be there. And he said that Ihad nothing ﬁt to wear, when I had my purple plushthat I had never so much as taken out of the drawer.At last, when nothing else would do, he went off toFrance upon the business of the ﬁrm, but we went,mother and I, with Mr. Hardy, who used to be ourforeman, and it was there I met Mr. Hosmer Angel.”“I suppose,” said Holmes, “that when Mr.Windibank came back from France he was very an-noyed at your having gone to the ball.”“Oh, well, he was very good about it. He laughed,I remember, and shrugged his shoulders, and saidthere was no use denying anything to a woman, forshe would have her way.”“I see. Then at the gasﬁtters’ ball you met, as Iunderstand, a gentleman called Mr. Hosmer Angel.”“Yes, sir. I met him that night, and he called nextday to ask if we had got home all safe, and after thatwe met him—that is to say, Mr. Holmes, I met himtwice for walks, but after that father came back again,and Mr. Hosmer Angel could not come to the houseany more.”“No?”“Well, you know father didn’t like anything of thesort. He wouldn’t have any visitors if he could helpit, and he used to say that a woman should be happyin her own family circle. But then, as I used to say tomother, a woman wants her own circle to begin with,and I had not got mine yet.”“But how about Mr. Hosmer Angel? Did he makeno attempt to see you?”“Well, father was going off to France again in aweek, and Hosmer wrote and said that it would besafer and better not to see each other until he hadgone. We could write in the meantime, and he usedto write every day. I took the letters in in the morning,so there was no need for father to know.”“Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?”“Oh, yes, Mr. Holmes. We were engaged after theﬁrst walk that we took. Hosmer—Mr. Angel—was acashier in an ofﬁce in Leadenhall Street—and—”“What ofﬁce?”“That’s the worst of it, Mr. Holmes, I don’t know.”“Where did he live, then?”“He slept on the premises.”“And you don’t know his address?”“No—except that it was Leadenhall Street.”“Where did you address your letters, then?”“To the Leadenhall Street Post Ofﬁce, to be left tillcalled for. He said that if they were sent to the ofﬁcehe would be chaffed by all the other clerks about hav-ing letters from a lady, so I offered to typewrite them,like he did his, but he wouldn’t have that, for he saidthat when I wrote them they seemed to come fromme, but when they were typewritten he always feltthat the machine had come between us. That will justshow you how fond he was of me, Mr. Holmes, andthe little things that he would think of.”“It was most suggestive,” said Holmes. “It haslong been an axiom of mine that the little things areinﬁnitely the most important. Can you remember anyother little things about Mr. Hosmer Angel?”“He was a very shy man, Mr. Holmes. He wouldrather walk with me in the evening than in the day-light, for he said that he hated to be conspicuous. Veryretiring and gentlemanly he was. Even his voice wasgentle. He’d had the quinsy and swollen glands whenhe was young, he told me, and it had left him with aweak throat, and a hesitating, whispering fashion ofspeech. He was always well dressed, very neat andplain, but his eyes were weak, just as mine are, andhe wore tinted glasses against the glare.”“Well, and what happened when Mr. Windibank,your stepfather, returned to France?”“Mr. Hosmer Angel came to the house again andproposed that we should marry before father cameback. He was in dreadful earnest and made me swear,your stepfather, returned to France?”“Mr. Hosmer Angel came to the house again andproposed that we should marry before father cameback. He was in dreadful earnest and made me swear,with my hands on the Testament, that whatever hap-pened I would always be true to him. Mother saidhe was quite right to make me swear, and that it wasa sign of his passion. Mother was all in his favourfrom the ﬁrst and was even fonder of him than I was.Then, when they talked of marrying within the week,I began to ask about father; but they both said neverto mind about father, but just to tell him afterwards,and mother said she would make it all right with him.I didn’t quite like that, Mr. Holmes. It seemed funnythat I should ask his leave, as he was only a few yearsolder than me; but I didn’t want to do anything onthe sly, so I wrote to father at Bordeaux, where thecompany has its French ofﬁces, but the letter cameback to me on the very morning of the wedding.”“It missed him, then?”35A Case of Identity“Yes, sir; for he had started to England just beforeit arrived.”“Ha! that was unfortunate. Your wedding wasarranged, then, for the Friday. Was it to be in church?”“Yes, sir, but very quietly. It was to be at St.Saviour’s, near King’s Cross, and we were to havebreakfast afterwards at the St. Pancras Hotel. Hosmercame for us in a hansom, but as there were two ofus he put us both into it and stepped himself into afour-wheeler, which happened to be the only othercab in the street. We got to the church ﬁrst, and whenthe four-wheeler drove up we waited for him to stepout, but he never did, and when the cabman got downfrom the box and looked there was no one there! Thecabman said that he could not imagine what had be-come of him, for he had seen him get in with his owneyes. That was last Friday, Mr. Holmes, and I havenever seen or heard anything since then to throw anylight upon what became of him.”“It seems to me that you have been very shame-fully treated,” said Holmes.“Oh, no, sir! He was too good and kind to leaveme so. Why, all the morning he was saying to me that,whatever happened, I was to be true; and that evenif something quite unforeseen occurred to separateus, I was always to remember that I was pledged tohim, and that he would claim his pledge sooner orlater. It seemed strange talk for a wedding-morning,but what has happened since gives a meaning to it.”“Most certainly it does. Your own opinion is, then,that some unforeseen catastrophe has occurred tohim?”“Yes, sir. I believe that he foresaw some danger, orelse he would not have talked so. And then I thinkthat what he foresaw happened.”“But you have no notion as to what it could havebeen?”“None.”“One more question. How did your mother takethe matter?”“She was angry, and said that I was never to speakof the matter again.”“And your father? Did you tell him?”“Yes; and he seemed to think, with me, that some-thing had happened, and that I should hear of Hos-mer again. As he said, what interest could anyonehave in bringing me to the doors of the church, andthen leaving me? Now, if he had borrowed my money,or if he had married me and got my money settledon him, there might be some reason, but Hosmer wasvery independent about money and never would lookat a shilling of mine. And yet, what could have hap-pened? And why could he not write? Oh, it drivesme half-mad to think of it, and I can’t sleep a winkat night.” She pulled a little handkerchief out of hermuff and began to sob heavily into it.“I shall glance into the case for you,” said Holmes,rising, “and I have no doubt that we shall reach somedeﬁnite result. Let the weight of the matter rest uponme now, and do not let your mind dwell upon it fur-ther. Above all, try to let Mr. Hosmer Angel vanishfrom your memory, as he has done from your life.”“Then you don’t think I’ll see him again?”“I fear not.”“Then what has happened to him?”“You will leave that question in my hands. Ishould like an accurate description of him and anyletters of his which you can spare.”“I advertised for him in last Saturday’s Chronicle ,”said she. “Here is the slip and here are four lettersfrom him.”“Thank you. And your address?”“No. 31Lyon Place, Camberwell.”“Mr. Angel’s address you never had, I understand.Where is your father’s place of business?”“He travels for Westhouse & Marbank, the greatclaret importers of Fenchurch Street.”“Thank you. You have made your statement veryclearly. You will leave the papers here, and rememberthe advice which I have given you. Let the wholeincident be a sealed book, and do not allow it to affectyour life.”“You are very kind, Mr. Holmes, but I cannot dothat. I shall be true to Hosmer. He shall ﬁnd me readywhen he comes back.”For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face,there was something noble in the simple faith of ourvisitor which compelled our respect. She laid her littlewhen he comes back.”For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face,there was something noble in the simple faith of ourvisitor which compelled our respect. She laid her littlebundle of papers upon the table and went her way,with a promise to come again whenever she might besummoned.Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes withhis ﬁngertips still pressed together, his legs stretchedout in front of him, and his gaze directed upward tothe ceiling. Then he took down from the rack the oldand oily clay pipe, which was to him as a counsellor,and, having lit it, he leaned back in his chair, with thethick blue cloud-wreaths spinning up from him, anda look of inﬁnite languor in his face.36A Case of Identity“Quite an interesting study, that maiden,” he ob-served. “I found her more interesting than her littleproblem, which, by the way, is rather a trite one. Youwill ﬁnd parallel cases, if you consult my index, inAndover in ’ 77, and there was something of the sortat The Hague last year. Old as is the idea, however,there were one or two details which were new to me.But the maiden herself was most instructive.”“You appeared to read a good deal upon herwhich was quite invisible to me,” I remarked.“Not invisible but unnoticed, Watson. You did notknow where to look, and so you missed all that wasimportant. I can never bring you to realise the impor-tance of sleeves, the suggestiveness of thumb-nails, orthe great issues that may hang from a boot-lace. Now,what did you gather from that woman’s appearance?Describe it.”“Well, she had a slate-coloured, broad-brimmedstraw hat, with a feather of a brickish red. Her jacketwas black, with black beads sewn upon it, and a fringeof little black jet ornaments. Her dress was brown,rather darker than coffee colour, with a little purpleplush at the neck and sleeves. Her gloves were greyishand were worn through at the right foreﬁnger. Herboots I didn’t observe. She had small round, hang-ing gold earrings, and a general air of being fairlywell-to-do in a vulgar, comfortable, easy-going way.”Sherlock Holmes clapped his hands softly togetherand chuckled.“’Pon my word, Watson, you are coming alongwonderfully. You have really done very well indeed.It is true that you have missed everything of impor-tance, but you have hit upon the method, and youhave a quick eye for colour. Never trust to generalimpressions, my boy, but concentrate yourself upondetails. My ﬁrst glance is always at a woman’s sleeve.In a man it is perhaps better ﬁrst to take the knee ofthe trouser. As you observe, this woman had plushupon her sleeves, which is a most useful material forshowing traces. The double line a little above thewrist, where the typewritist presses against the table,was beautifully deﬁned. The sewing-machine, of thehand type, leaves a similar mark, but only on the leftarm, and on the side of it farthest from the thumb,instead of being right across the broadest part, asthis was. I then glanced at her face, and, observingthe dint of a pince-nez at either side of her nose, Iventured a remark upon short sight and typewriting,which seemed to surprise her.”“It surprised me.”“But, surely, it was obvious. I was then much sur-prised and interested on glancing down to observethat, though the boots which she was wearing werenot unlike each other, they were really odd ones; theone having a slightly decorated toe-cap, and the othera plain one. One was buttoned only in the two lowerbuttons out of ﬁve, and the other at the ﬁrst, third,and ﬁfth. Now, when you see that a young lady, other-wise neatly dressed, has come away from home withodd boots, half-buttoned, it is no great deduction tosay that she came away in a hurry.”“And what else?” I asked, keenly interested, as Ialways was, by my friend’s incisive reasoning.“I noted, in passing, that she had written a notebefore leaving home but after being fully dressed.You observed that her right glove was torn at theforeﬁnger, but you did not apparently see that bothglove and ﬁnger were stained with violet ink. Shehad written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deep.It must have been this morning, or the mark wouldnot remain clear upon the ﬁnger. All this is amus-ing, though rather elementary, but I must go back tobusiness, Watson. Would you mind reading me theadvertised description of Mr. Hosmer Angel?”I held the little printed slip to the light.“Missing,” it said, “on the morning ofthe fourteenth, a gentleman named Hos-mer Angel. About ﬁve ft. seven in. inheight; strongly built, sallow complex-ion, black hair, a little bald in the cen-tre, bushy, black side-whiskers and mous-mer Angel. About ﬁve ft. seven in. inheight; strongly built, sallow complex-ion, black hair, a little bald in the cen-tre, bushy, black side-whiskers and mous-tache; tinted glasses, slight inﬁrmity ofspeech. Was dressed, when last seen,in black frock-coat faced with silk, blackwaistcoat, gold Albert chain, and grey Har-ris tweed trousers, with brown gaiters overelastic-sided boots. Known to have beenemployed in an ofﬁce in Leadenhall Street.Anybody bringing—”“That will do,” said Holmes. “As to the letters,”he continued, glancing over them, “they are very com-monplace. Absolutely no clue in them to Mr. Angel,save that he quotes Balzac once. There is one remark-able point, however, which will no doubt strike you.”“They are typewritten,” I remarked.“Not only that, but the signature is typewritten.Look at the neat little ‘Hosmer Angel’ at the bottom.There is a date, you see, but no superscription exceptLeadenhall Street, which is rather vague. The point37A Case of Identityabout the signature is very suggestive—in fact, wemay call it conclusive.”“Of what?”“My dear fellow, is it possible you do not see howstrongly it bears upon the case?”“I cannot say that I do unless it were that hewished to be able to deny his signature if an actionfor breach of promise were instituted.”“No, that was not the point. However, I shall writetwo letters, which should settle the matter. One isto a ﬁrm in the City, the other is to the young lady’sstepfather, Mr. Windibank, asking him whether hecould meet us here at six o’clock tomorrow evening.It is just as well that we should do business with themale relatives. And now, Doctor, we can do nothinguntil the answers to those letters come, so we may putour little problem upon the shelf for the interim.”I had had so many reasons to believe in myfriend’s subtle powers of reasoning and extraordinaryenergy in action that I felt that he must have somesolid grounds for the assured and easy demeanourwith which he treated the singular mystery which hehad been called upon to fathom. Once only had Iknown him to fail, in the case of the King of Bohemiaand of the Irene Adler photograph; but when I lookedback to the weird business of the Sign of Four, andthe extraordinary circumstances connected with theStudy in Scarlet, I felt that it would be a strange tangleindeed which he could not unravel.I left him then, still pufﬁng at his black clay pipe,with the conviction that when I came again on thenext evening I would ﬁnd that he held in his hands allthe clues which would lead up to the identity of thedisappearing bridegroom of Miss Mary Sutherland.A professional case of great gravity was engagingmy own attention at the time, and the whole of nextday I was busy at the bedside of the sufferer. It wasnot until close upon six o’clock that I found myselffree and was able to spring into a hansom and driveto Baker Street, half afraid that I might be too late toassist at the d ´enouement of the little mystery. I foundSherlock Holmes alone, however, half asleep, withhis long, thin form curled up in the recesses of hisarmchair. A formidable array of bottles and test-tubes,with the pungent cleanly smell of hydrochloric acid,told me that he had spent his day in the chemicalwork which was so dear to him.“Well, have you solved it?” I asked as I entered.“Yes. It was the bisulphate of baryta.”“No, no, the mystery!” I cried.“Oh, that! I thought of the salt that I have beenworking upon. There was never any mystery in thematter, though, as I said yesterday, some of the detailsare of interest. The only drawback is that there is nolaw, I fear, that can touch the scoundrel.”“Who was he, then, and what was his object indeserting Miss Sutherland?”The question was hardly out of my mouth, andHolmes had not yet opened his lips to reply, when weheard a heavy footfall in the passage and a tap at thedoor.“This is the girl’s stepfather, Mr. JamesWindibank,” said Holmes. “He has written to meto say that he would be here at six. Come in!”The man who entered was a sturdy, middle-sizedfellow, some thirty years of age, clean-shaven, andsallow-skinned, with a bland, insinuating manner,and a pair of wonderfully sharp and penetrating greyeyes. He shot a questioning glance at each of us,placed his shiny top-hat upon the sideboard, andwith a slight bow sidled down into the nearest chair.“Good-evening, Mr. James Windibank,” saidHolmes. “I think that this typewritten letter is fromyou, in which you made an appointment with me forsix o’clock?”“Yes, sir. I am afraid that I am a little late, but Iam not quite my own master, you know. I am sorrythat Miss Sutherland has troubled you about this littlematter, for I think it is far better not to wash linen ofthe sort in public. It was quite against my wishes thatshe came, but she is a very excitable, impulsive girl,as you may have noticed, and she is not easily con-the sort in public. It was quite against my wishes thatshe came, but she is a very excitable, impulsive girl,as you may have noticed, and she is not easily con-trolled when she has made up her mind on a point.Of course, I did not mind you so much, as you arenot connected with the ofﬁcial police, but it is notpleasant to have a family misfortune like this noisedabroad. Besides, it is a useless expense, for how couldyou possibly ﬁnd this Hosmer Angel?”“On the contrary,” said Holmes quietly; “I have ev-ery reason to believe that I will succeed in discoveringMr. Hosmer Angel.”Mr. Windibank gave a violent start and droppedhis gloves. “I am delighted to hear it,” he said.“It is a curious thing,” remarked Holmes, “that atypewriter has really quite as much individuality asa man’s handwriting. Unless they are quite new, notwo of them write exactly alike. Some letters get moreworn than others, and some wear only on one side.Now, you remark in this note of yours, Mr. Windibank,that in every case there is some little slurring over ofthe ‘e,’ and a slight defect in the tail of the ‘r.’ There38A Case of Identityare fourteen other characteristics, but those are themore obvious.”“We do all our correspondence with this machineat the ofﬁce, and no doubt it is a little worn,” ourvisitor answered, glancing keenly at Holmes with hisbright little eyes.“And now I will show you what is really a veryinteresting study, Mr. Windibank,” Holmes continued.“I think of writing another little monograph someof these days on the typewriter and its relation tocrime. It is a subject to which I have devoted somelittle attention. I have here four letters which purportto come from the missing man. They are all type-written. In each case, not only are the ‘e’s’ slurredand the ‘r’s’ tailless, but you will observe, if you careto use my magnifying lens, that the fourteen othercharacteristics to which I have alluded are there aswell.”Mr. Windibank sprang out of his chair and pickedup his hat. “I cannot waste time over this sort offantastic talk, Mr. Holmes,” he said. “If you can catchthe man, catch him, and let me know when you havedone it.”“Certainly,” said Holmes, stepping over and turn-ing the key in the door. “I let you know, then, that Ihave caught him!”“What! where?” shouted Mr. Windibank, turningwhite to his lips and glancing about him like a rat ina trap.“Oh, it won’t do—really it won’t,” said Holmessuavely. “There is no possible getting out of it, Mr.Windibank. It is quite too transparent, and it was avery bad compliment when you said that it was im-possible for me to solve so simple a question. That’sright! Sit down and let us talk it over.”Our visitor collapsed into a chair, with a ghastlyface and a glitter of moisture on his brow. “It—it’snot actionable,” he stammered.“I am very much afraid that it is not. But betweenourselves, Windibank, it was as cruel and selﬁsh andheartless a trick in a petty way as ever came beforeme. Now, let me just run over the course of events,and you will contradict me if I go wrong.”The man sat huddled up in his chair, with his headsunk upon his breast, like one who is utterly crushed.Holmes stuck his feet up on the corner of the mantel-piece and, leaning back with his hands in his pockets,began talking, rather to himself, as it seemed, than tous.“The man married a woman very much older thanhimself for her money,” said he, “and he enjoyed theuse of the money of the daughter as long as she livedwith them. It was a considerable sum, for people intheir position, and the loss of it would have made a se-rious difference. It was worth an effort to preserve it.The daughter was of a good, amiable disposition, butaffectionate and warm-hearted in her ways, so that itwas evident that with her fair personal advantages,and her little income, she would not be allowed toremain single long. Now her marriage would mean,of course, the loss of a hundred a year, so what doesher stepfather do to prevent it? He takes the obviouscourse of keeping her at home and forbidding her toseek the company of people of her own age. But soonhe found that that would not answer forever. Shebecame restive, insisted upon her rights, and ﬁnallyannounced her positive intention of going to a certainball. What does her clever stepfather do then? Heconceives an idea more creditable to his head than tohis heart. With the connivance and assistance of hiswife he disguised himself, covered those keen eyeswith tinted glasses, masked the face with a moustacheand a pair of bushy whiskers, sunk that clear voiceinto an insinuating whisper, and doubly secure onaccount of the girl’s short sight, he appears as Mr.Hosmer Angel, and keeps off other lovers by makinglove himself.”“It was only a joke at ﬁrst,” groaned our visitor.“We never thought that she would have been so car-ried away.”“Very likely not. However that may be, the younglady was very decidedly carried away, and, havingquite made up her mind that her stepfather was inried away.”“Very likely not. However that may be, the younglady was very decidedly carried away, and, havingquite made up her mind that her stepfather was inFrance, the suspicion of treachery never for an instantentered her mind. She was ﬂattered by the gentle-man’s attentions, and the effect was increased by theloudly expressed admiration of her mother. Then Mr.Angel began to call, for it was obvious that the mattershould be pushed as far as it would go if a real effectwere to be produced. There were meetings, and anengagement, which would ﬁnally secure the girl’saffections from turning towards anyone else. But thedeception could not be kept up forever. These pre-tended journeys to France were rather cumbrous. Thething to do was clearly to bring the business to an endin such a dramatic manner that it would leave a per-manent impression upon the young lady’s mind andprevent her from looking upon any other suitor forsome time to come. Hence those vows of ﬁdelity ex-acted upon a Testament, and hence also the allusionsto a possibility of something happening on the verymorning of the wedding. James Windibank wishedMiss Sutherland to be so bound to Hosmer Angel,39A Case of Identityand so uncertain as to his fate, that for ten years tocome, at any rate, she would not listen to another man.As far as the church door he brought her, and then,as he could go no farther, he conveniently vanishedaway by the old trick of stepping in at one door of afour-wheeler and out at the other. I think that wasthe chain of events, Mr. Windibank!”Our visitor had recovered something of his assur-ance while Holmes had been talking, and he rosefrom his chair now with a cold sneer upon his paleface.“It may be so, or it may not, Mr. Holmes,” said he,“but if you are so very sharp you ought to be sharpenough to know that it is you who are breaking thelaw now, and not me. I have done nothing action-able from the ﬁrst, but as long as you keep that doorlocked you lay yourself open to an action for assaultand illegal constraint.”“The law cannot, as you say, touch you,” saidHolmes, unlocking and throwing open the door, “yetthere never was a man who deserved punishmentmore. If the young lady has a brother or a friend, heought to lay a whip across your shoulders. By Jove!”he continued, ﬂushing up at the sight of the bittersneer upon the man’s face, “it is not part of my dutiesto my client, but here’s a hunting crop handy, and Ithink I shall just treat myself to—” He took two swiftsteps to the whip, but before he could grasp it therewas a wild clatter of steps upon the stairs, the heavyhall door banged, and from the window we could seeMr. James Windibank running at the top of his speeddown the road.“There’s a cold-blooded scoundrel!” said Holmes,laughing, as he threw himself down into his chaironce more. “That fellow will rise from crime to crimeuntil he does something very bad, and ends on a gal-lows. The case has, in some respects, been not entirelydevoid of interest.”“I cannot now entirely see all the steps of yourreasoning,” I remarked.“Well, of course it was obvious from the ﬁrst thatthis Mr. Hosmer Angel must have some strong objectfor his curious conduct, and it was equally clear thatthe only man who really proﬁted by the incident, asfar as we could see, was the stepfather. Then the factthat the two men were never together, but that theone always appeared when the other was away, wassuggestive. So were the tinted spectacles and the curi-ous voice, which both hinted at a disguise, as did thebushy whiskers. My suspicions were all conﬁrmedby his peculiar action in typewriting his signature,which, of course, inferred that his handwriting wasso familiar to her that she would recognise even thesmallest sample of it. You see all these isolated facts,together with many minor ones, all pointed in thesame direction.”“And how did you verify them?”“Having once spotted my man, it was easy toget corroboration. I knew the ﬁrm for which thisman worked. Having taken the printed description,I eliminated everything from it which could be theresult of a disguise—the whiskers, the glasses, thevoice, and I sent it to the ﬁrm, with a request thatthey would inform me whether it answered to thedescription of any of their travellers. I had alreadynoticed the peculiarities of the typewriter, and I wroteto the man himself at his business address asking himif he would come here. As I expected, his reply wastypewritten and revealed the same trivial but char-acteristic defects. The same post brought me a letterfrom Westhouse & Marbank, of Fenchurch Street, tosay that the description tallied in every respect withthat of their employee, James Windibank. Voil `a tout!”“And Miss Sutherland?”“If I tell her she will not believe me. You mayremember the old Persian saying, ‘There is dangerfor him who taketh the tiger cub, and danger also forwhoso snatches a delusion from a woman.’ There isas much sense in Haﬁz as in Horace, and as muchknowledge of the world.”40The Boscombe Valley MysteryTheBoscombe Valley MysteryWe were seated at breakfast one morning,my wife and I, when the maid brought ina telegram. It was from Sherlock Holmesand ran in this way:“Have you a couple of days to spare? Havejust been wired for from the west of Eng-land in connection with Boscombe Valleytragedy. Shall be glad if you will comewith me. Air and scenery perfect. LeavePaddington by the 11.15.”“What do you say, dear?” said my wife, lookingacross at me. “Will you go?”“I really don’t know what to say. I have a fairlylong list at present.”“Oh, Anstruther would do your work for you. Youhave been looking a little pale lately. I think that thechange would do you good, and you are always sointerested in Mr. Sherlock Holmes’ cases.”“I should be ungrateful if I were not, seeing whatI gained through one of them,” I answered. “But if Iam to go, I must pack at once, for I have only half anhour.”My experience of camp life in Afghanistan had atleast had the effect of making me a prompt and readytraveller. My wants were few and simple, so that inless than the time stated I was in a cab with my valise,rattling away to Paddington Station. Sherlock Holmeswas pacing up and down the platform, his tall, gauntﬁgure made even gaunter and taller by his long greytravelling-cloak and close-ﬁtting cloth cap.“It is really very good of you to come, Watson,”said he. “It makes a considerable difference to me,having someone with me on whom I can thoroughlyrely. Local aid is always either worthless or else bi-assed. If you will keep the two corner seats I shall getthe tickets.”We had the carriage to ourselves save for an im-mense litter of papers which Holmes had broughtwith him. Among these he rummaged and read, withintervals of note-taking and of meditation, until wewere past Reading. Then he suddenly rolled them allinto a gigantic ball and tossed them up onto the rack.“Have you heard anything of the case?” he asked.“Not a word. I have not seen a paper for somedays.”“The London press has not had very full accounts.I have just been looking through all the recent papersin order to master the particulars. It seems, from whatI gather, to be one of those simple cases which are soextremely difﬁcult.”“That sounds a little paradoxical.”“But it is profoundly true. Singularity is almostinvariably a clue. The more featureless and common-place a crime is, the more difﬁcult it is to bring ithome. In this case, however, they have establisheda very serious case against the son of the murderedman.”“It is a murder, then?”“Well, it is conjectured to be so. I shall take noth-ing for granted until I have the opportunity of lookingpersonally into it. I will explain the state of things toyou, as far as I have been able to understand it, in avery few words.“Boscombe Valley is a country district not veryfar from Ross, in Herefordshire. The largest landedproprietor in that part is a Mr. John Turner, who madehis money in Australia and returned some years agoto the old country. One of the farms which he held,that of Hatherley, was let to Mr. Charles McCarthy,who was also an ex-Australian. The men had knowneach other in the colonies, so that it was not unnaturalthat when they came to settle down they should do soas near each other as possible. Turner was apparentlythe richer man, so McCarthy became his tenant butstill remained, it seems, upon terms of perfect equal-ity, as they were frequently together. McCarthy hadone son, a lad of eighteen, and Turner had an onlydaughter of the same age, but neither of them hadwives living. They appear to have avoided the societyof the neighbouring English families and to have ledretired lives, though both the McCarthys were fond ofsport and were frequently seen at the race-meetings ofthe neighbourhood. McCarthy kept two servants—aman and a girl. Turner had a considerable household,some half-dozen at the least. That is as much as Ithe neighbourhood. McCarthy kept two servants—aman and a girl. Turner had a considerable household,some half-dozen at the least. That is as much as Ihave been able to gather about the families. Now forthe facts.“On June 3rd, that is, on Monday last, McCarthyleft his house at Hatherley about three in the after-noon and walked down to the Boscombe Pool, whichis a small lake formed by the spreading out of thestream which runs down the Boscombe Valley. Hehad been out with his serving-man in the morning atRoss, and he had told the man that he must hurry, ashe had an appointment of importance to keep at three.From that appointment he never came back alive.“From Hatherley Farm-house to the BoscombePool is a quarter of a mile, and two people saw him ashe passed over this ground. One was an old woman,43TheBoscombe Valley Mysterywhose name is not mentioned, and the other wasWilliam Crowder, a game-keeper in the employ ofMr. Turner. Both these witnesses depose that Mr. Mc-Carthy was walking alone. The game-keeper addsthat within a few minutes of his seeing Mr. McCarthypass he had seen his son, Mr. James McCarthy, goingthe same way with a gun under his arm. To the bestof his belief, the father was actually in sight at thetime, and the son was following him. He thought nomore of the matter until he heard in the evening ofthe tragedy that had occurred.“The two McCarthys were seen after the timewhen William Crowder, the game-keeper, lost sight ofthem. The Boscombe Pool is thickly wooded round,with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round theedge. A girl of fourteen, Patience Moran, who is thedaughter of the lodge-keeper of the Boscombe Valleyestate, was in one of the woods picking ﬂowers. Shestates that while she was there she saw, at the borderof the wood and close by the lake, Mr. McCarthy andhis son, and that they appeared to be having a violentquarrel. She heard Mr. McCarthy the elder using verystrong language to his son, and she saw the latterraise up his hand as if to strike his father. She wasso frightened by their violence that she ran away andtold her mother when she reached home that she hadleft the two McCarthys quarrelling near BoscombePool, and that she was afraid that they were going toﬁght. She had hardly said the words when young Mr.McCarthy came running up to the lodge to say that hehad found his father dead in the wood, and to ask forthe help of the lodge-keeper. He was much excited,without either his gun or his hat, and his right handand sleeve were observed to be stained with freshblood. On following him they found the dead bodystretched out upon the grass beside the pool. Thehead had been beaten in by repeated blows of someheavy and blunt weapon. The injuries were such asmight very well have been inﬂicted by the butt-endof his son’s gun, which was found lying on the grasswithin a few paces of the body. Under these circum-stances the young man was instantly arrested, and averdict of ‘wilful murder’ having been returned at theinquest on Tuesday, he was on Wednesday broughtbefore the magistrates at Ross, who have referred thecase to the next Assizes. Those are the main facts ofthe case as they came out before the coroner and thepolice-court.”“I could hardly imagine a more damning case,” Iremarked. “If ever circumstantial evidence pointed toa criminal it does so here.”“Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing,”answered Holmes thoughtfully. “It may seem to pointvery straight to one thing, but if you shift your ownpoint of view a little, you may ﬁnd it pointing in anequally uncompromising manner to something en-tirely different. It must be confessed, however, thatthe case looks exceedingly grave against the youngman, and it is very possible that he is indeed the cul-prit. There are several people in the neighbourhood,however, and among them Miss Turner, the daughterof the neighbouring landowner, who believe in hisinnocence, and who have retained Lestrade, whomyou may recollect in connection with the Study inScarlet, to work out the case in his interest. Lestrade,being rather puzzled, has referred the case to me, andhence it is that two middle-aged gentlemen are ﬂy-ing westward at ﬁfty miles an hour instead of quietlydigesting their breakfasts at home.”“I am afraid,” said I, “that the facts are so obviousthat you will ﬁnd little credit to be gained out of thiscase.”“There is nothing more deceptive than an obvi-ous fact,” he answered, laughing. “Besides, we maychance to hit upon some other obvious facts whichmay have been by no means obvious to Mr. Lestrade.You know me too well to think that I am boastingwhen I say that I shall either conﬁrm or destroy histheory by means which he is quite incapable of em-You know me too well to think that I am boastingwhen I say that I shall either conﬁrm or destroy histheory by means which he is quite incapable of em-ploying, or even of understanding. To take the ﬁrstexample to hand, I very clearly perceive that in yourbedroom the window is upon the right-hand side,and yet I question whether Mr. Lestrade would havenoted even so self-evident a thing as that.”“How on earth—”“My dear fellow, I know you well. I know themilitary neatness which characterises you. You shaveevery morning, and in this season you shave by thesunlight; but since your shaving is less and less com-plete as we get farther back on the left side, until itbecomes positively slovenly as we get round the angleof the jaw, it is surely very clear that that side is lessilluminated than the other. I could not imagine a manof your habits looking at himself in an equal lightand being satisﬁed with such a result. I only quotethis as a trivial example of observation and inference.Therein lies my m´etier, and it is just possible that itmay be of some service in the investigation which liesbefore us. There are one or two minor points whichwere brought out in the inquest, and which are worthconsidering.”“What are they?”“It appears that his arrest did not take place atonce, but after the return to Hatherley Farm. On the44TheBoscombe Valley Mysteryinspector of constabulary informing him that he wasa prisoner, he remarked that he was not surprised tohear it, and that it was no more than his deserts. Thisobservation of his had the natural effect of removingany traces of doubt which might have remained inthe minds of the coroner’s jury.”“It was a confession,” I ejaculated.“No, for it was followed by a protestation of inno-cence.”“Coming on the top of such a damning series ofevents, it was at least a most suspicious remark.”“On the contrary,” said Holmes, “it is the brightestrift which I can at present see in the clouds. Howeverinnocent he might be, he could not be such an abso-lute imbecile as not to see that the circumstances werevery black against him. Had he appeared surprised athis own arrest, or feigned indignation at it, I shouldhave looked upon it as highly suspicious, becausesuch surprise or anger would not be natural underthe circumstances, and yet might appear to be the bestpolicy to a scheming man. His frank acceptance of thesituation marks him as either an innocent man, or elseas a man of considerable self-restraint and ﬁrmness.As to his remark about his deserts, it was also not un-natural if you consider that he stood beside the deadbody of his father, and that there is no doubt thathe had that very day so far forgotten his ﬁlial dutyas to bandy words with him, and even, according tothe little girl whose evidence is so important, to raisehis hand as if to strike him. The self-reproach andcontrition which are displayed in his remark appearto me to be the signs of a healthy mind rather than ofa guilty one.”I shook my head. “Many men have been hangedon far slighter evidence,” I remarked.“So they have. And many men have been wrong-fully hanged.”“What is the young man’s own account of thematter?”“It is, I am afraid, not very encouraging to hissupporters, though there are one or two points in itwhich are suggestive. You will ﬁnd it here, and mayread it for yourself.”He picked out from his bundle a copy of the localHerefordshire paper, and having turned down thesheet he pointed out the paragraph in which the un-fortunate young man had given his own statementof what had occurred. I settled myself down in thecorner of the carriage and read it very carefully. It ranin this way:“Mr. James McCarthy, the only son of the de-ceased, was then called and gave evidence asfollows: ‘I had been away from home for threedays at Bristol, and had only just returnedupon the morning of last Monday, the 3rd.My father was absent from home at the timeof my arrival, and I was informed by the maidthat he had driven over to Ross with JohnCobb, the groom. Shortly after my return Iheard the wheels of his trap in the yard, and,looking out of my window, I saw him get outand walk rapidly out of the yard, though I wasnot aware in which direction he was going. Ithen took my gun and strolled out in the direc-tion of the Boscombe Pool, with the intentionof visiting the rabbit warren which is upon theother side. On my way I saw William Crow-der, the game-keeper, as he had stated in hisevidence; but he is mistaken in thinking thatI was following my father. I had no idea thathe was in front of me. When about a hundredyards from the pool I heard a cry of “Cooee!”which was a usual signal between my fatherand myself. I then hurried forward, and foundhim standing by the pool. He appeared to bemuch surprised at seeing me and asked merather roughly what I was doing there. A con-versation ensued which led to high words andalmost to blows, for my father was a man ofa very violent temper. Seeing that his pas-sion was becoming ungovernable, I left himand returned towards Hatherley Farm. I hadnot gone more than 150yards, however, whenI heard a hideous outcry behind me, whichcaused me to run back again. I found my fa-ther expiring upon the ground, with his headterribly injured. I dropped my gun and heldI heard a hideous outcry behind me, whichcaused me to run back again. I found my fa-ther expiring upon the ground, with his headterribly injured. I dropped my gun and heldhim in my arms, but he almost instantly ex-pired. I knelt beside him for some minutes,and then made my way to Mr. Turner’s lodge-keeper, his house being the nearest, to ask forassistance. I saw no one near my father whenI returned, and I have no idea how he came byhis injuries. He was not a popular man, beingsomewhat cold and forbidding in his manners,but he had, as far as I know, no active enemies.I know nothing further of the matter.’“The Coroner: Did your father make anystatement to you before he died?“Witness: He mumbled a few words, but Icould only catch some allusion to a rat.“The Coroner: What did you understand by45TheBoscombe Valley Mysterythat?“Witness: It conveyed no meaning to me. Ithought that he was delirious.“The Coroner: What was the point uponwhich you and your father had this ﬁnal quar-rel?“Witness: I should prefer not to answer.“The Coroner: I am afraid that I must pressit.“Witness: It is really impossible for me to tellyou. I can assure you that it has nothing todo with the sad tragedy which followed.“The Coroner: That is for the court to decide.I need not point out to you that your refusal toanswer will prejudice your case considerablyin any future proceedings which may arise.“Witness: I must still refuse.“The Coroner: I understand that the cry of‘Cooee’ was a common signal between you andyour father?“Witness: It was.“The Coroner: How was it, then, that he ut-tered it before he saw you, and before he evenknew that you had returned from Bristol?“Witness (with considerable confusion): I donot know.“A Juryman: Did you see nothing whicharoused your suspicions when you returnedon hearing the cry and found your father fa-tally injured?“Witness: Nothing deﬁnite.“The Coroner: What do you mean?“Witness: I was so disturbed and excited asI rushed out into the open, that I could thinkof nothing except of my father. Yet I have avague impression that as I ran forward some-thing lay upon the ground to the left of me. Itseemed to me to be something grey in colour,a coat of some sort, or a plaid perhaps. WhenI rose from my father I looked round for it, butit was gone.“ ‘Do you mean that it disappeared before youwent for help?’“ ‘Yes, it was gone.’“ ‘You cannot say what it was?’“ ‘No, I had a feeling something was there.’“ ‘How far from the body?’“ ‘A dozen yards or so.’“ ‘And how far from the edge of the wood?’“ ‘About the same.’“ ‘Then if it was removed it was while youwere within a dozen yards of it?’“ ‘Yes, but with my back towards it.’“This concluded the examination of the wit-ness.”“I see,” said I as I glanced down the column, “that thecoroner in his concluding remarks was rather severeupon young McCarthy. He calls attention, and withreason, to the discrepancy about his father havingsignalled to him before seeing him, also to his refusalto give details of his conversation with his father, andhis singular account of his father’s dying words. Theyare all, as he remarks, very much against the son.”Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretchedhimself out upon the cushioned seat. “Both you andthe coroner have been at some pains,” said he, “to sin-gle out the very strongest points in the young man’sfavour. Don’t you see that you alternately give himcredit for having too much imagination and too little?Too little, if he could not invent a cause of quarrelwhich would give him the sympathy of the jury; toomuch, if he evolved from his own inner consciousnessanything so outr ´e as a dying reference to a rat, andthe incident of the vanishing cloth. No, sir, I shallapproach this case from the point of view that whatthis young man says is true, and we shall see whitherthat hypothesis will lead us. And now here is mypocket Petrarch, and not another word shall I say ofthis case until we are on the scene of action. We lunchat Swindon, and I see that we shall be there in twentyminutes.”It was nearly four o’clock when we at last, afterpassing through the beautiful Stroud Valley, and overthe broad gleaming Severn, found ourselves at thepretty little country-town of Ross. A lean, ferret-likeman, furtive and sly-looking, was waiting for us uponthe platform. In spite of the light brown dustcoat andleather-leggings which he wore in deference to hisrustic surroundings, I had no difﬁculty in recognisingLestrade, of Scotland Yard. With him we drove tothe Hereford Arms where a room had already beenengaged for us.“I have ordered a carriage,” said Lestrade as wesat over a cup of tea. “I knew your energetic nature,and that you would not be happy until you had beenengaged for us.“I have ordered a carriage,” said Lestrade as wesat over a cup of tea. “I knew your energetic nature,and that you would not be happy until you had beenon the scene of the crime.”“It was very nice and complimentary of you,”Holmes answered. “It is entirely a question of baro-metric pressure.”Lestrade looked startled. “I do not quite follow,”he said.46TheBoscombe Valley Mystery“How is the glass? Twenty-nine, I see. No wind,and not a cloud in the sky. I have a caseful ofcigarettes here which need smoking, and the sofa isvery much superior to the usual country hotel abomi-nation. I do not think that it is probable that I shalluse the carriage to-night.”Lestrade laughed indulgently. “You have, nodoubt, already formed your conclusions from thenewspapers,” he said. “The case is as plain as apikestaff, and the more one goes into it the plainer itbecomes. Still, of course, one can’t refuse a lady, andsuch a very positive one, too. She has heard of you,and would have your opinion, though I repeatedlytold her that there was nothing which you could dowhich I had not already done. Why, bless my soul!here is her carriage at the door.”He had hardly spoken before there rushed intothe room one of the most lovely young women that Ihave ever seen in my life. Her violet eyes shining, herlips parted, a pink ﬂush upon her cheeks, all thoughtof her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excite-ment and concern.“Oh, Mr. Sherlock Holmes!” she cried, glancingfrom one to the other of us, and ﬁnally, with awoman’s quick intuition, fastening upon my com-panion, “I am so glad that you have come. I havedriven down to tell you so. I know that James didn’tdo it. I know it, and I want you to start upon yourwork knowing it, too. Never let yourself doubt uponthat point. We have known each other since we werelittle children, and I know his faults as no one elsedoes; but he is too tender-hearted to hurt a ﬂy. Sucha charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him.”“I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner,” said Sher-lock Holmes. “You may rely upon my doing all that Ican.”“But you have read the evidence. You have formedsome conclusion? Do you not see some loophole,some ﬂaw? Do you not yourself think that he is inno-cent?”“I think that it is very probable.”“There, now!” she cried, throwing back her headand looking deﬁantly at Lestrade. “You hear! Hegives me hopes.”Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. “I am afraid thatmy colleague has been a little quick in forming hisconclusions,” he said.“But he is right. Oh! I know that he is right. Jamesnever did it. And about his quarrel with his father,I am sure that the reason why he would not speakabout it to the coroner was because I was concernedin it.”“In what way?” asked Holmes.“It is no time for me to hide anything. James andhis father had many disagreements about me. Mr. Mc-Carthy was very anxious that there should be a mar-riage between us. James and I have always loved eachother as brother and sister; but of course he is youngand has seen very little of life yet, and—and—well,he naturally did not wish to do anything like that yet.So there were quarrels, and this, I am sure, was oneof them.”“And your father?” asked Holmes. “Was he infavour of such a union?”“No, he was averse to it also. No one but Mr.McCarthy was in favour of it.” A quick blush passedover her fresh young face as Holmes shot one of hiskeen, questioning glances at her.“Thank you for this information,” said he. “May Isee your father if I call to-morrow?”“I am afraid the doctor won’t allow it.”“The doctor?”“Yes, have you not heard? Poor father has neverbeen strong for years back, but this has broken himdown completely. He has taken to his bed, and Dr.Willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervoussystem is shattered. Mr. McCarthy was the only manalive who had known dad in the old days in Victoria.”“Ha! In Victoria! That is important.”“Yes, at the mines.”“Quite so; at the gold-mines, where, as I under-stand, Mr. Turner made his money.”“Yes, certainly.”“Thank you, Miss Turner. You have been of mate-rial assistance to me.”“You will tell me if you have any news to-morrow.No doubt you will go to the prison to see James. Oh,if you do, Mr. Holmes, do tell him that I know him tobe innocent.”“I will, Miss Turner.”“You will tell me if you have any news to-morrow.No doubt you will go to the prison to see James. Oh,if you do, Mr. Holmes, do tell him that I know him tobe innocent.”“I will, Miss Turner.”“I must go home now, for dad is very ill, and hemisses me so if I leave him. Good-bye, and God helpyou in your undertaking.” She hurried from the roomas impulsively as she had entered, and we heard thewheels of her carriage rattle off down the street.“I am ashamed of you, Holmes,” said Lestradewith dignity after a few minutes’ silence. “Whyshould you raise up hopes which you are bound todisappoint? I am not over-tender of heart, but I call itcruel.”47TheBoscombe Valley Mystery“I think that I see my way to clearing James Mc-Carthy,” said Holmes. “Have you an order to see himin prison?”“Yes, but only for you and me.”“Then I shall reconsider my resolution about go-ing out. We have still time to take a train to Herefordand see him to-night?”“Ample.”“Then let us do so. Watson, I fear that you willﬁnd it very slow, but I shall only be away a couple ofhours.”I walked down to the station with them, and thenwandered through the streets of the little town, ﬁnallyreturning to the hotel, where I lay upon the sofa andtried to interest myself in a yellow-backed novel. Thepuny plot of the story was so thin, however, whencompared to the deep mystery through which wewere groping, and I found my attention wander socontinually from the action to the fact, that I at lastﬂung it across the room and gave myself up entirelyto a consideration of the events of the day. Supposingthat this unhappy young man’s story were absolutelytrue, then what hellish thing, what absolutely unfore-seen and extraordinary calamity could have occurredbetween the time when he parted from his father, andthe moment when, drawn back by his screams, herushed into the glade? It was something terrible anddeadly. What could it be? Might not the nature of theinjuries reveal something to my medical instincts? Irang the bell and called for the weekly county paper,which contained a verbatim account of the inquest. Inthe surgeon’s deposition it was stated that the poste-rior third of the left parietal bone and the left half ofthe occipital bone had been shattered by a heavy blowfrom a blunt weapon. I marked the spot upon myown head. Clearly such a blow must have been struckfrom behind. That was to some extent in favour of theaccused, as when seen quarrelling he was face to facewith his father. Still, it did not go for very much, forthe older man might have turned his back before theblow fell. Still, it might be worth while to call Holmes’attention to it. Then there was the peculiar dying ref-erence to a rat. What could that mean? It could not bedelirium. A man dying from a sudden blow does notcommonly become delirious. No, it was more likelyto be an attempt to explain how he met his fate. Butwhat could it indicate? I cudgelled my brains to ﬁndsome possible explanation. And then the incident ofthe grey cloth seen by young McCarthy. If that weretrue the murderer must have dropped some part ofhis dress, presumably his overcoat, in his ﬂight, andmust have had the hardihood to return and to carryit away at the instant when the son was kneeling withhis back turned not a dozen paces off. What a tissueof mysteries and improbabilities the whole thing was!I did not wonder at Lestrade’s opinion, and yet I hadso much faith in Sherlock Holmes’ insight that I couldnot lose hope as long as every fresh fact seemed tostrengthen his conviction of young McCarthy’s inno-cence.It was late before Sherlock Holmes returned. Hecame back alone, for Lestrade was staying in lodgingsin the town.“The glass still keeps very high,” he remarked ashe sat down. “It is of importance that it should notrain before we are able to go over the ground. Onthe other hand, a man should be at his very best andkeenest for such nice work as that, and I did not wishto do it when fagged by a long journey. I have seenyoung McCarthy.”“And what did you learn from him?”“Nothing.”“Could he throw no light?”“None at all. I was inclined to think at one timethat he knew who had done it and was screening himor her, but I am convinced now that he is as puzzledas everyone else. He is not a very quick-witted youth,though comely to look at and, I should think, soundat heart.”“I cannot admire his taste,” I remarked, “if it isindeed a fact that he was averse to a marriage with socharming a young lady as this Miss Turner.”“Ah, thereby hangs a rather painful tale. This“I cannot admire his taste,” I remarked, “if it isindeed a fact that he was averse to a marriage with socharming a young lady as this Miss Turner.”“Ah, thereby hangs a rather painful tale. Thisfellow is madly, insanely, in love with her, but sometwo years ago, when he was only a lad, and beforehe really knew her, for she had been away ﬁve yearsat a boarding-school, what does the idiot do but getinto the clutches of a barmaid in Bristol and marryher at a registry ofﬁce? No one knows a word ofthe matter, but you can imagine how maddening itmust be to him to be upbraided for not doing whathe would give his very eyes to do, but what he knowsto be absolutely impossible. It was sheer frenzy ofthis sort which made him throw his hands up intothe air when his father, at their last interview, wasgoading him on to propose to Miss Turner. On theother hand, he had no means of supporting himself,and his father, who was by all accounts a very hardman, would have thrown him over utterly had heknown the truth. It was with his barmaid wife that hehad spent the last three days in Bristol, and his fatherdid not know where he was. Mark that point. It is48TheBoscombe Valley Mysteryof importance. Good has come out of evil, however,for the barmaid, ﬁnding from the papers that he is inserious trouble and likely to be hanged, has thrownhim over utterly and has written to him to say thatshe has a husband already in the Bermuda Dockyard,so that there is really no tie between them. I thinkthat that bit of news has consoled young McCarthyfor all that he has suffered.”“But if he is innocent, who has done it?”“Ah! who? I would call your attention very partic-ularly to two points. One is that the murdered manhad an appointment with someone at the pool, andthat the someone could not have been his son, for hisson was away, and he did not know when he wouldreturn. The second is that the murdered man washeard to cry ‘Cooee!’ before he knew that his son hadreturned. Those are the crucial points upon whichthe case depends. And now let us talk about GeorgeMeredith, if you please, and we shall leave all minormatters until to-morrow.”There was no rain, as Holmes had foretold, andthe morning broke bright and cloudless. At nineo’clock Lestrade called for us with the carriage, andwe set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe Pool.“There is serious news this morning,” Lestradeobserved. “It is said that Mr. Turner, of the Hall, is soill that his life is despaired of.”“An elderly man, I presume?” said Holmes.“About sixty; but his constitution has been shat-tered by his life abroad, and he has been in failinghealth for some time. This business has had a verybad effect upon him. He was an old friend of Mc-Carthy’s, and, I may add, a great benefactor to him,for I have learned that he gave him Hatherley Farmrent free.”“Indeed! That is interesting,” said Holmes.“Oh, yes! In a hundred other ways he has helpedhim. Everybody about here speaks of his kindness tohim.”“Really! Does it not strike you as a little singularthat this McCarthy, who appears to have had littleof his own, and to have been under such obligationsto Turner, should still talk of marrying his son toTurner’s daughter, who is, presumably, heiress to theestate, and that in such a very cocksure manner, as ifit were merely a case of a proposal and all else wouldfollow? It is the more strange, since we know thatTurner himself was averse to the idea. The daughtertold us as much. Do you not deduce something fromthat?”“We have got to the deductions and the infer-ences,” said Lestrade, winking at me. “I ﬁnd it hardenough to tackle facts, Holmes, without ﬂying awayafter theories and fancies.”“You are right,” said Holmes demurely; “you doﬁnd it very hard to tackle the facts.”“Anyhow, I have grasped one fact which you seemto ﬁnd it difﬁcult to get hold of,” replied Lestrade withsome warmth.“And that is—”“That McCarthy senior met his death from Mc-Carthy junior and that all theories to the contrary arethe merest moonshine.”“Well, moonshine is a brighter thing than fog,”said Holmes, laughing. “But I am very much mis-taken if this is not Hatherley Farm upon the left.”“Yes, that is it.” It was a widespread, comfortable-looking building, two-storied, slate-roofed, with greatyellow blotches of lichen upon the grey walls. Thedrawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys, however,gave it a stricken look, as though the weight of thishorror still lay heavy upon it. We called at the door,when the maid, at Holmes’ request, showed us theboots which her master wore at the time of his death,and also a pair of the son’s, though not the pair whichhe had then had. Having measured these very care-fully from seven or eight different points, Holmesdesired to be led to the court-yard, from which we allfollowed the winding track which led to BoscombePool.Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he washot upon such a scent as this. Men who had onlyknown the quiet thinker and logician of Baker Streetwould have failed to recognise him. His face ﬂushedand darkened. His brows were drawn into two hardknown the quiet thinker and logician of Baker Streetwould have failed to recognise him. His face ﬂushedand darkened. His brows were drawn into two hardblack lines, while his eyes shone out from beneaththem with a steely glitter. His face was bent down-ward, his shoulders bowed, his lips compressed, andthe veins stood out like whipcord in his long, sinewyneck. His nostrils seemed to dilate with a purely ani-mal lust for the chase, and his mind was so absolutelyconcentrated upon the matter before him that a ques-tion or remark fell unheeded upon his ears, or, at themost, only provoked a quick, impatient snarl in reply.Swiftly and silently he made his way along the trackwhich ran through the meadows, and so by way of thewoods to the Boscombe Pool. It was damp, marshyground, as is all that district, and there were marksof many feet, both upon the path and amid the shortgrass which bounded it on either side. SometimesHolmes would hurry on, sometimes stop dead, andonce he made quite a little detour into the meadow.49TheBoscombe Valley MysteryLestrade and I walked behind him, the detective indif-ferent and contemptuous, while I watched my friendwith the interest which sprang from the convictionthat every one of his actions was directed towards adeﬁnite end.The Boscombe Pool, which is a little reed-girt sheetof water some ﬁfty yards across, is situated at theboundary between the Hatherley Farm and the pri-vate park of the wealthy Mr. Turner. Above the woodswhich lined it upon the farther side we could see thered, jutting pinnacles which marked the site of therich landowner’s dwelling. On the Hatherley side ofthe pool the woods grew very thick, and there wasa narrow belt of sodden grass twenty paces acrossbetween the edge of the trees and the reeds whichlined the lake. Lestrade showed us the exact spotat which the body had been found, and, indeed, somoist was the ground, that I could plainly see thetraces which had been left by the fall of the strickenman. To Holmes, as I could see by his eager face andpeering eyes, very many other things were to be readupon the trampled grass. He ran round, like a dogwho is picking up a scent, and then turned upon mycompanion.“What did you go into the pool for?” he asked.“I ﬁshed about with a rake. I thought there mightbe some weapon or other trace. But how on earth—”“Oh, tut, tut! I have no time! That left foot ofyours with its inward twist is all over the place. Amole could trace it, and there it vanishes among thereeds. Oh, how simple it would all have been hadI been here before they came like a herd of buffaloand wallowed all over it. Here is where the partywith the lodge-keeper came, and they have coveredall tracks for six or eight feet round the body. Buthere are three separate tracks of the same feet.” Hedrew out a lens and lay down upon his waterproofto have a better view, talking all the time rather tohimself than to us. “These are young McCarthy’s feet.Twice he was walking, and once he ran swiftly, sothat the soles are deeply marked and the heels hardlyvisible. That bears out his story. He ran when he sawhis father on the ground. Then here are the father’sfeet as he paced up and down. What is this, then? Itis the butt-end of the gun as the son stood listening.And this? Ha, ha! What have we here? Tiptoes! tip-toes! Square, too, quite unusual boots! They come,they go, they come again—of course that was for thecloak. Now where did they come from?” He ran upand down, sometimes losing, sometimes ﬁnding thetrack until we were well within the edge of the woodand under the shadow of a great beech, the largesttree in the neighbourhood. Holmes traced his wayto the farther side of this and lay down once moreupon his face with a little cry of satisfaction. For along time he remained there, turning over the leavesand dried sticks, gathering up what seemed to meto be dust into an envelope and examining with hislens not only the ground but even the bark of the treeas far as he could reach. A jagged stone was lyingamong the moss, and this also he carefully examinedand retained. Then he followed a pathway throughthe wood until he came to the highroad, where alltraces were lost.“It has been a case of considerable interest,” heremarked, returning to his natural manner. “I fancythat this grey house on the right must be the lodge. Ithink that I will go in and have a word with Moran,and perhaps write a little note. Having done that, wemay drive back to our luncheon. You may walk to thecab, and I shall be with you presently.”It was about ten minutes before we regained ourcab and drove back into Ross, Holmes still carryingwith him the stone which he had picked up in thewood.“This may interest you, Lestrade,” he remarked,holding it out. “The murder was done with it.”“I see no marks.”“There are none.”“How do you know, then?”“The grass was growing under it. It had only lainthere a few days. There was no sign of a place whence“I see no marks.”“There are none.”“How do you know, then?”“The grass was growing under it. It had only lainthere a few days. There was no sign of a place whenceit had been taken. It corresponds with the injuries.There is no sign of any other weapon.”“And the murderer?”“Is a tall man, left-handed, limps with the rightleg, wears thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak,smokes Indian cigars, uses a cigar-holder, and carriesa blunt pen-knife in his pocket. There are severalother indications, but these may be enough to aid usin our search.”Lestrade laughed. “I am afraid that I am still asceptic,” he said. “Theories are all very well, but wehave to deal with a hard-headed British jury.”“Nous verrons, ” answered Holmes calmly. “Youwork your own method, and I shall work mine. Ishall be busy this afternoon, and shall probably re-turn to London by the evening train.”“And leave your case unﬁnished?”“No, ﬁnished.”“But the mystery?”“It is solved.”50TheBoscombe Valley Mystery“Who was the criminal, then?”“The gentleman I describe.”“But who is he?”“Surely it would not be difﬁcult to ﬁnd out. Thisis not such a populous neighbourhood.”Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. “I am a practicalman,” he said, “and I really cannot undertake to goabout the country looking for a left-handed gentlemanwith a game leg. I should become the laughing-stockof Scotland Yard.”“All right,” said Holmes quietly. “I have givenyou the chance. Here are your lodgings. Good-bye. Ishall drop you a line before I leave.”Having left Lestrade at his rooms, we drove to ourhotel, where we found lunch upon the table. Holmeswas silent and buried in thought with a pained ex-pression upon his face, as one who ﬁnds himself in aperplexing position.“Look here, Watson,” he said when the cloth wascleared “just sit down in this chair and let me preachto you for a little. I don’t know quite what to do, andI should value your advice. Light a cigar and let meexpound.”“Pray do so.”“Well, now, in considering this case there aretwo points about young McCarthy’s narrative whichstruck us both instantly, although they impressed mein his favour and you against him. One was the factthat his father should, according to his account, cry‘Cooee!’ before seeing him. The other was his singulardying reference to a rat. He mumbled several words,you understand, but that was all that caught the son’sear. Now from this double point our research mustcommence, and we will begin it by presuming thatwhat the lad says is absolutely true.”“What of this ‘Cooee!’ then?”“Well, obviously it could not have been meant forthe son. The son, as far as he knew, was in Bristol.It was mere chance that he was within earshot. The‘Cooee!’ was meant to attract the attention of whoeverit was that he had the appointment with. But ‘Cooee’is a distinctly Australian cry, and one which is usedbetween Australians. There is a strong presumptionthat the person whom McCarthy expected to meethim at Boscombe Pool was someone who had been inAustralia.”“What of the rat, then?”Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from hispocket and ﬂattened it out on the table. “This is amap of the Colony of Victoria,” he said. “I wired toBristol for it last night.” He put his hand over part ofthe map. “What do you read?”“ARAT,” I read.“And now?” He raised his hand.“BALLARAT.”“Quite so. That was the word the man uttered,and of which his son only caught the last two sylla-bles. He was trying to utter the name of his murderer.So and so, of Ballarat.”“It is wonderful!” I exclaimed.“It is obvious. And now, you see, I had narrowedthe ﬁeld down considerably. The possession of a greygarment was a third point which, granting the son’sstatement to be correct, was a certainty. We have comenow out of mere vagueness to the deﬁnite conceptionof an Australian from Ballarat with a grey cloak.”“Certainly.”“And one who was at home in the district, for thepool can only be approached by the farm or by theestate, where strangers could hardly wander.”“Quite so.”“Then comes our expedition of to-day. By an ex-amination of the ground I gained the triﬂing detailswhich I gave to that imbecile Lestrade, as to the per-sonality of the criminal.”“But how did you gain them?”“You know my method. It is founded upon theobservation of triﬂes.”“His height I know that you might roughly judgefrom the length of his stride. His boots, too, might betold from their traces.”“Yes, they were peculiar boots.”“But his lameness?”“The impression of his right foot was always lessdistinct than his left. He put less weight upon it.Why? Because he limped—he was lame.”“But his left-handedness.”“You were yourself struck by the nature of theinjury as recorded by the surgeon at the inquest. Theblow was struck from immediately behind, and yetwas upon the left side. Now, how can that be unlessit were by a left-handed man? He had stood behindblow was struck from immediately behind, and yetwas upon the left side. Now, how can that be unlessit were by a left-handed man? He had stood behindthat tree during the interview between the father andson. He had even smoked there. I found the ash of acigar, which my special knowledge of tobacco ashesenables me to pronounce as an Indian cigar. I have, asyou know, devoted some attention to this, and writ-ten a little monograph on the ashes of 140differentvarieties of pipe, cigar, and cigarette tobacco. Having51TheBoscombe Valley Mysteryfound the ash, I then looked round and discoveredthe stump among the moss where he had tossed it. Itwas an Indian cigar, of the variety which are rolled inRotterdam.”“And the cigar-holder?”“I could see that the end had not been in his mouth.Therefore he used a holder. The tip had been cut off,not bitten off, but the cut was not a clean one, so Ideduced a blunt pen-knife.”“Holmes,” I said, “you have drawn a net roundthis man from which he cannot escape, and you havesaved an innocent human life as truly as if you had cutthe cord which was hanging him. I see the directionin which all this points. The culprit is—”“Mr. John Turner,” cried the hotel waiter, openingthe door of our sitting-room, and ushering in a visitor.The man who entered was a strange and impres-sive ﬁgure. His slow, limping step and bowed shoul-ders gave the appearance of decrepitude, and yethis hard, deep-lined, craggy features, and his enor-mous limbs showed that he was possessed of unusualstrength of body and of character. His tangled beard,grizzled hair, and outstanding, drooping eyebrowscombined to give an air of dignity and power to hisappearance, but his face was of an ashen white, whilehis lips and the corners of his nostrils were tingedwith a shade of blue. It was clear to me at a glancethat he was in the grip of some deadly and chronicdisease.“Pray sit down on the sofa,” said Holmes gently.“You had my note?”“Yes, the lodge-keeper brought it up. You saidthat you wished to see me here to avoid scandal.”“I thought people would talk if I went to the Hall.”“And why did you wish to see me?” He lookedacross at my companion with despair in his wearyeyes, as though his question was already answered.“Yes,” said Holmes, answering the look ratherthan the words. “It is so. I know all about McCarthy.”The old man sank his face in his hands. “God helpme!” he cried. “But I would not have let the youngman come to harm. I give you my word that I wouldhave spoken out if it went against him at the Assizes.”“I am glad to hear you say so,” said Holmesgravely.“I would have spoken now had it not been for mydear girl. It would break her heart—it will break herheart when she hears that I am arrested.”“It may not come to that,” said Holmes.“What?”“I am no ofﬁcial agent. I understand that it wasyour daughter who required my presence here, and Iam acting in her interests. Young McCarthy must begot off, however.”“I am a dying man,” said old Turner. “I have haddiabetes for years. My doctor says it is a questionwhether I shall live a month. Yet I would rather dieunder my own roof than in a jail.”Holmes rose and sat down at the table with hispen in his hand and a bundle of paper before him.“Just tell us the truth,” he said. “I shall jot down thefacts. You will sign it, and Watson here can witnessit. Then I could produce your confession at the lastextremity to save young McCarthy. I promise you thatI shall not use it unless it is absolutely needed.”“It’s as well,” said the old man; “it’s a questionwhether I shall live to the Assizes, so it matters littleto me, but I should wish to spare Alice the shock.And now I will make the thing clear to you; it hasbeen a long time in the acting, but will not take melong to tell.“You didn’t know this dead man, McCarthy. Hewas a devil incarnate. I tell you that. God keep youout of the clutches of such a man as he. His grip hasbeen upon me these twenty years, and he has blastedmy life. I’ll tell you ﬁrst how I came to be in hispower.“It was in the early ’ 60’s at the diggings. I was ayoung chap then, hot-blooded and reckless, ready toturn my hand at anything; I got among bad compan-ions, took to drink, had no luck with my claim, tookto the bush, and in a word became what you wouldcall over here a highway robber. There were six of us,and we had a wild, free life of it, sticking up a stationfrom time to time, or stopping the wagons on thecall over here a highway robber. There were six of us,and we had a wild, free life of it, sticking up a stationfrom time to time, or stopping the wagons on theroad to the diggings. Black Jack of Ballarat was thename I went under, and our party is still rememberedin the colony as the Ballarat Gang.“One day a gold convoy came down from Ballaratto Melbourne, and we lay in wait for it and attacked it.There were six troopers and six of us, so it was a closething, but we emptied four of their saddles at the ﬁrstvolley. Three of our boys were killed, however, beforewe got the swag. I put my pistol to the head of thewagon-driver, who was this very man McCarthy. Iwish to the Lord that I had shot him then, but I sparedhim, though I saw his wicked little eyes ﬁxed on myface, as though to remember every feature. We gotaway with the gold, became wealthy men, and madeour way over to England without being suspected.There I parted from my old pals and determined to52TheBoscombe Valley Mysterysettle down to a quiet and respectable life. I boughtthis estate, which chanced to be in the market, and Iset myself to do a little good with my money, to makeup for the way in which I had earned it. I married,too, and though my wife died young she left me mydear little Alice. Even when she was just a baby herwee hand seemed to lead me down the right path asnothing else had ever done. In a word, I turned overa new leaf and did my best to make up for the past.All was going well when McCarthy laid his grip uponme.“I had gone up to town about an investment, andI met him in Regent Street with hardly a coat to hisback or a boot to his foot.“ ‘Here we are, Jack,’ says he, touching me on thearm; ‘we’ll be as good as a family to you. There’s twoof us, me and my son, and you can have the keepingof us. If you don’t—it’s a ﬁne, law-abiding country isEngland, and there’s always a policeman within hail.’“Well, down they came to the west country, therewas no shaking them off, and there they have livedrent free on my best land ever since. There was norest for me, no peace, no forgetfulness; turn whereI would, there was his cunning, grinning face at myelbow. It grew worse as Alice grew up, for he soonsaw I was more afraid of her knowing my past thanof the police. Whatever he wanted he must have, andwhatever it was I gave him without question, land,money, houses, until at last he asked a thing which Icould not give. He asked for Alice.“His son, you see, had grown up, and so had mygirl, and as I was known to be in weak health, itseemed a ﬁne stroke to him that his lad should stepinto the whole property. But there I was ﬁrm. I wouldnot have his cursed stock mixed with mine; not thatI had any dislike to the lad, but his blood was inhim, and that was enough. I stood ﬁrm. McCarthythreatened. I braved him to do his worst. We were tomeet at the pool midway between our houses to talkit over.“When I went down there I found him talkingwith his son, so I smoked a cigar and waited behinda tree until he should be alone. But as I listened tohis talk all that was black and bitter in me seemedto come uppermost. He was urging his son to marrymy daughter with as little regard for what she mightthink as if she were a slut from off the streets. Itdrove me mad to think that I and all that I held mostdear should be in the power of such a man as this.Could I not snap the bond? I was already a dying anda desperate man. Though clear of mind and fairlystrong of limb, I knew that my own fate was sealed.But my memory and my girl! Both could be savedif I could but silence that foul tongue. I did it, Mr.Holmes. I would do it again. Deeply as I have sinned,I have led a life of martyrdom to atone for it. Butthat my girl should be entangled in the same mesheswhich held me was more than I could suffer. I struckhim down with no more compunction than if he hadbeen some foul and venomous beast. His cry broughtback his son; but I had gained the cover of the wood,though I was forced to go back to fetch the cloakwhich I had dropped in my ﬂight. That is the truestory, gentlemen, of all that occurred.”“Well, it is not for me to judge you,” said Holmesas the old man signed the statement which had beendrawn out. “I pray that we may never be exposed tosuch a temptation.”“I pray not, sir. And what do you intend to do?”“In view of your health, nothing. You are yourselfaware that you will soon have to answer for your deedat a higher court than the Assizes. I will keep yourconfession, and if McCarthy is condemned I shall beforced to use it. If not, it shall never be seen by mortaleye; and your secret, whether you be alive or dead,shall be safe with us.”“Farewell, then,” said the old man solemnly. “Yourown deathbeds, when they come, will be the easierfor the thought of the peace which you have given tomine.” Tottering and shaking in all his giant frame,he stumbled slowly from the room.own deathbeds, when they come, will be the easierfor the thought of the peace which you have given tomine.” Tottering and shaking in all his giant frame,he stumbled slowly from the room.“God help us!” said Holmes after a long silence.“Why does fate play such tricks with poor, helplessworms? I never hear of such a case as this that I donot think of Baxter’s words, and say, ‘There, but forthe grace of God, goes Sherlock Holmes.’ ”James McCarthy was acquitted at the Assizes onthe strength of a number of objections which had beendrawn out by Holmes and submitted to the defend-ing counsel. Old Turner lived for seven months afterour interview, but he is now dead; and there is ev-ery prospect that the son and daughter may come tolive happily together in ignorance of the black cloudwhich rests upon their past.53The Five Orange PipsTheFiveOrange PipsWhen Iglance over my notes and recordsof the Sherlock Holmes cases between theyears ’ 82and ’ 90, I am faced by so manywhich present strange and interesting fea-tures that it is no easy matter to know which to chooseand which to leave. Some, however, have alreadygained publicity through the papers, and others havenot offered a ﬁeld for those peculiar qualities whichmy friend possessed in so high a degree, and whichit is the object of these papers to illustrate. Some,too, have bafﬂed his analytical skill, and would be,as narratives, beginnings without an ending, whileothers have been but partially cleared up, and havetheir explanations founded rather upon conjectureand surmise than on that absolute logical proof whichwas so dear to him. There is, however, one of theselast which was so remarkable in its details and sostartling in its results that I am tempted to give someaccount of it in spite of the fact that there are pointsin connection with it which never have been, andprobably never will be, entirely cleared up.The year ’ 87furnished us with a long series ofcases of greater or less interest, of which I retain therecords. Among my headings under this one twelvemonths I ﬁnd an account of the adventure of theParadol Chamber, of the Amateur Mendicant Society,who held a luxurious club in the lower vault of afurniture warehouse, of the facts connected with theloss of the British barque “Sophy Anderson”, of thesingular adventures of the Grice Patersons in the is-land of Uffa, and ﬁnally of the Camberwell poisoningcase. In the latter, as may be remembered, SherlockHolmes was able, by winding up the dead man’swatch, to prove that it had been wound up two hoursbefore, and that therefore the deceased had gone tobed within that time—a deduction which was of thegreatest importance in clearing up the case. All theseI may sketch out at some future date, but none ofthem present such singular features as the strangetrain of circumstances which I have now taken up mypen to describe.It was in the latter days of September, and theequinoctial gales had set in with exceptional violence.All day the wind had screamed and the rain hadbeaten against the windows, so that even here in theheart of great, hand-made London we were forcedto raise our minds for the instant from the routineof life and to recognise the presence of those greatelemental forces which shriek at mankind throughthe bars of his civilisation, like untamed beasts in acage. As evening drew in, the storm grew higher andlouder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a child inthe chimney. Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one sideof the ﬁreplace cross-indexing his records of crime,while I at the other was deep in one of Clark Russell’sﬁne sea-stories until the howl of the gale from withoutseemed to blend with the text, and the splash of therain to lengthen out into the long swash of the seawaves. My wife was on a visit to her mother’s, andfor a few days I was a dweller once more in my oldquarters at Baker Street.“Why,” said I, glancing up at my companion, “thatwas surely the bell. Who could come to-night? Somefriend of yours, perhaps?”“Except yourself I have none,” he answered. “I donot encourage visitors.”“A client, then?”“If so, it is a serious case. Nothing less wouldbring a man out on such a day and at such an hour.But I take it that it is more likely to be some crony ofthe landlady’s.”Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture,however, for there came a step in the passage anda tapping at the door. He stretched out his long armto turn the lamp away from himself and towards thevacant chair upon which a newcomer must sit.“Come in!” said he.The man who entered was young, some two-and-twenty at the outside, well-groomed and trimly clad,with something of reﬁnement and delicacy in hisbearing. The streaming umbrella which he held inhis hand, and his long shining waterproof told oftwenty at the outside, well-groomed and trimly clad,with something of reﬁnement and delicacy in hisbearing. The streaming umbrella which he held inhis hand, and his long shining waterproof told ofthe ﬁerce weather through which he had come. Helooked about him anxiously in the glare of the lamp,and I could see that his face was pale and his eyesheavy, like those of a man who is weighed down withsome great anxiety.“I owe you an apology,” he said, raising his goldenpince-nez to his eyes. “I trust that I am not intruding.I fear that I have brought some traces of the stormand rain into your snug chamber.”“Give me your coat and umbrella,” said Holmes.“They may rest here on the hook and will be drypresently. You have come up from the south-west, Isee.”“Yes, from Horsham.”“That clay and chalk mixture which I see uponyour toe caps is quite distinctive.”“I have come for advice.”“That is easily got.”“And help.”“That is not always so easy.”57TheFiveOrange Pips“I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes. I heardfrom Major Prendergast how you saved him in theTankerville Club scandal.”“Ah, of course. He was wrongfully accused ofcheating at cards.”“He said that you could solve anything.”“He said too much.”“That you are never beaten.”“I have been beaten four times—three times bymen, and once by a woman.”“But what is that compared with the number ofyour successes?”“It is true that I have been generally successful.”“Then you may be so with me.”“I beg that you will draw your chair up to the ﬁreand favour me with some details as to your case.”“It is no ordinary one.”“None of those which come to me are. I am thelast court of appeal.”“And yet I question, sir, whether, in all your expe-rience, you have ever listened to a more mysteriousand inexplicable chain of events than those whichhave happened in my own family.”“You ﬁll me with interest,” said Holmes. “Praygive us the essential facts from the commencement,and I can afterwards question you as to those detailswhich seem to me to be most important.”The young man pulled his chair up and pushedhis wet feet out towards the blaze.“My name,” said he, “is John Openshaw, but myown affairs have, as far as I can understand, little todo with this awful business. It is a hereditary matter;so in order to give you an idea of the facts, I must goback to the commencement of the affair.“You must know that my grandfather had twosons—my uncle Elias and my father Joseph. My fa-ther had a small factory at Coventry, which he en-larged at the time of the invention of bicycling. Hewas a patentee of the Openshaw unbreakable tire, andhis business met with such success that he was ableto sell it and to retire upon a handsome competence.“My uncle Elias emigrated to America when hewas a young man and became a planter in Florida,where he was reported to have done very well. Atthe time of the war he fought in Jackson’s army, andafterwards under Hood, where he rose to be a colonel.When Lee laid down his arms my uncle returned tohis plantation, where he remained for three or fouryears. About 1869 or1870 he came back to Europeand took a small estate in Sussex, near Horsham. Hehad made a very considerable fortune in the States,and his reason for leaving them was his aversion tothe negroes, and his dislike of the Republican policyin extending the franchise to them. He was a singularman, ﬁerce and quick-tempered, very foul-mouthedwhen he was angry, and of a most retiring disposi-tion. During all the years that he lived at Horsham, Idoubt if ever he set foot in the town. He had a gardenand two or three ﬁelds round his house, and there hewould take his exercise, though very often for weekson end he would never leave his room. He drank agreat deal of brandy and smoked very heavily, but hewould see no society and did not want any friends,not even his own brother.“He didn’t mind me; in fact, he took a fancy to me,for at the time when he saw me ﬁrst I was a young-ster of twelve or so. This would be in the year 1878 ,after he had been eight or nine years in England. Hebegged my father to let me live with him and he wasvery kind to me in his way. When he was sober heused to be fond of playing backgammon and draughtswith me, and he would make me his representativeboth with the servants and with the tradespeople, sothat by the time that I was sixteen I was quite masterof the house. I kept all the keys and could go where Iliked and do what I liked, so long as I did not disturbhim in his privacy. There was one singular exception,however, for he had a single room, a lumber-room upamong the attics, which was invariably locked, andwhich he would never permit either me or anyoneelse to enter. With a boy’s curiosity I have peepedthrough the keyhole, but I was never able to see morethan such a collection of old trunks and bundles aswould be expected in such a room.else to enter. With a boy’s curiosity I have peepedthrough the keyhole, but I was never able to see morethan such a collection of old trunks and bundles aswould be expected in such a room.“One day—it was in March, 1883 —a letter witha foreign stamp lay upon the table in front of thecolonel’s plate. It was not a common thing for himto receive letters, for his bills were all paid in readymoney, and he had no friends of any sort. ‘From In-dia!’ said he as he took it up, ‘Pondicherry postmark!What can this be?’ Opening it hurriedly, out therejumped ﬁve little dried orange pips, which pattereddown upon his plate. I began to laugh at this, butthe laugh was struck from my lips at the sight of hisface. His lip had fallen, his eyes were protruding, hisskin the colour of putty, and he glared at the envelopewhich he still held in his trembling hand, ‘K. K. K.!’he shrieked, and then, ‘My God, my God, my sinshave overtaken me!’“ ‘What is it, uncle?’ I cried.58TheFiveOrange Pips“ ‘Death,’ said he, and rising from the table he re-tired to his room, leaving me palpitating with horror.I took up the envelope and saw scrawled in red inkupon the inner ﬂap, just above the gum, the letterK three times repeated. There was nothing else savethe ﬁve dried pips. What could be the reason of hisoverpowering terror? I left the breakfast-table, and asI ascended the stair I met him coming down with anold rusty key, which must have belonged to the attic,in one hand, and a small brass box, like a cashbox, inthe other.“ ‘They may do what they like, but I’ll checkmatethem still,’ said he with an oath. ‘Tell Mary that Ishall want a ﬁre in my room to-day, and send downto Fordham, the Horsham lawyer.’“I did as he ordered, and when the lawyer arrivedI was asked to step up to the room. The ﬁre wasburning brightly, and in the grate there was a mass ofblack, ﬂuffy ashes, as of burned paper, while the brassbox stood open and empty beside it. As I glanced atthe box I noticed, with a start, that upon the lid wasprinted the treble K which I had read in the morningupon the envelope.“ ‘I wish you, John,’ said my uncle, ‘to witness mywill. I leave my estate, with all its advantages and allits disadvantages, to my brother, your father, whenceit will, no doubt, descend to you. If you can enjoy it inpeace, well and good! If you ﬁnd you cannot, take myadvice, my boy, and leave it to your deadliest enemy.I am sorry to give you such a two-edged thing, but Ican’t say what turn things are going to take. Kindlysign the paper where Mr. Fordham shows you.’“I signed the paper as directed, and the lawyertook it away with him. The singular incident made,as you may think, the deepest impression upon me,and I pondered over it and turned it every way inmy mind without being able to make anything of it.Yet I could not shake off the vague feeling of dreadwhich it left behind, though the sensation grew lesskeen as the weeks passed and nothing happened todisturb the usual routine of our lives. I could see achange in my uncle, however. He drank more thanever, and he was less inclined for any sort of society.Most of his time he would spend in his room, with thedoor locked upon the inside, but sometimes he wouldemerge in a sort of drunken frenzy and would burstout of the house and tear about the garden with arevolver in his hand, screaming out that he was afraidof no man, and that he was not to be cooped up, likea sheep in a pen, by man or devil. When these hotﬁts were over, however, he would rush tumultuouslyin at the door and lock and bar it behind him, likea man who can brazen it out no longer against theterror which lies at the roots of his soul. At such timesI have seen his face, even on a cold day, glisten withmoisture, as though it were new raised from a basin.“Well, to come to an end of the matter, Mr. Holmes,and not to abuse your patience, there came a nightwhen he made one of those drunken sallies fromwhich he never came back. We found him, whenwe went to search for him, face downward in a lit-tle green-scummed pool, which lay at the foot of thegarden. There was no sign of any violence, and thewater was but two feet deep, so that the jury, havingregard to his known eccentricity, brought in a verdictof ‘suicide.’ But I, who knew how he winced fromthe very thought of death, had much ado to persuademyself that he had gone out of his way to meet it. Thematter passed, however, and my father entered intopossession of the estate, and of some £14,000, whichlay to his credit at the bank.”“One moment,” Holmes interposed, “your state-ment is, I foresee, one of the most remarkable towhich I have ever listened. Let me have the date ofthe reception by your uncle of the letter, and the dateof his supposed suicide.”“The letter arrived on March 10,1883 . His deathwas seven weeks later, upon the night of May 2nd.”“Thank you. Pray proceed.”of his supposed suicide.”“The letter arrived on March 10,1883 . His deathwas seven weeks later, upon the night of May 2nd.”“Thank you. Pray proceed.”“When my father took over the Horsham property,he, at my request, made a careful examination of theattic, which had been always locked up. We foundthe brass box there, although its contents had beendestroyed. On the inside of the cover was a paper la-bel, with the initials of K. K. K. repeated upon it, and‘Letters, memoranda, receipts, and a register’ writtenbeneath. These, we presume, indicated the natureof the papers which had been destroyed by ColonelOpenshaw. For the rest, there was nothing of muchimportance in the attic save a great many scatteredpapers and note-books bearing upon my uncle’s lifein America. Some of them were of the war time andshowed that he had done his duty well and had bornethe repute of a brave soldier. Others were of a dateduring the reconstruction of the Southern states, andwere mostly concerned with politics, for he had evi-dently taken a strong part in opposing the carpet-bagpoliticians who had been sent down from the North.“Well, it was the beginning of ’ 84when my fathercame to live at Horsham, and all went as well as pos-sible with us until the January of ’ 85. On the fourthday after the new year I heard my father give a sharpcry of surprise as we sat together at the breakfast-table. There he was, sitting with a newly opened59TheFiveOrange Pipsenvelope in one hand and ﬁve dried orange pips inthe outstretched palm of the other one. He had al-ways laughed at what he called my cock-and-bullstory about the colonel, but he looked very scaredand puzzled now that the same thing had come uponhimself.“ ‘Why, what on earth does this mean, John?’ hestammered.“My heart had turned to lead. ‘It is K. K. K.,’ saidI.“He looked inside the envelope. ‘So it is,’ he cried.‘Here are the very letters. But what is this writtenabove them?’“ ‘Put the papers on the sundial,’ I read, peepingover his shoulder.“ ‘What papers? What sundial?’ he asked.“ ‘The sundial in the garden. There is no other,’said I; ‘but the papers must be those that are de-stroyed.’“ ‘Pooh!’ said he, gripping hard at his courage.‘We are in a civilised land here, and we can’t havetomfoolery of this kind. Where does the thing comefrom?’“ ‘From Dundee,’ I answered, glancing at the post-mark.“ ‘Some preposterous practical joke,’ said he.‘What have I to do with sundials and papers? I shalltake no notice of such nonsense.’“ ‘I should certainly speak to the police,’ I said.“ ‘And be laughed at for my pains. Nothing of thesort.’“ ‘Then let me do so?’“ ‘No, I forbid you. I won’t have a fuss made aboutsuch nonsense.’“It was in vain to argue with him, for he was avery obstinate man. I went about, however, with aheart which was full of forebodings.“On the third day after the coming of the lettermy father went from home to visit an old friend ofhis, Major Freebody, who is in command of one of theforts upon Portsdown Hill. I was glad that he shouldgo, for it seemed to me that he was farther from dan-ger when he was away from home. In that, however,I was in error. Upon the second day of his absence Ireceived a telegram from the major, imploring me tocome at once. My father had fallen over one of thedeep chalk-pits which abound in the neighbourhood,and was lying senseless, with a shattered skull. I hur-ried to him, but he passed away without having everrecovered his consciousness. He had, as it appears,been returning from Fareham in the twilight, and asthe country was unknown to him, and the chalk-pitunfenced, the jury had no hesitation in bringing in averdict of ‘death from accidental causes.’ Carefullyas I examined every fact connected with his death, Iwas unable to ﬁnd anything which could suggest theidea of murder. There were no signs of violence, nofootmarks, no robbery, no record of strangers havingbeen seen upon the roads. And yet I need not tell youthat my mind was far from at ease, and that I waswell-nigh certain that some foul plot had been wovenround him.“In this sinister way I came into my inheritance.You will ask me why I did not dispose of it? I answer,because I was well convinced that our troubles werein some way dependent upon an incident in my un-cle’s life, and that the danger would be as pressing inone house as in another.“It was in January, ’ 85, that my poor father met hisend, and two years and eight months have elapsedsince then. During that time I have lived happily atHorsham, and I had begun to hope that this curse hadpassed away from the family, and that it had endedwith the last generation. I had begun to take comforttoo soon, however; yesterday morning the blow fell inthe very shape in which it had come upon my father.”The young man took from his waistcoat a crum-pled envelope, and turning to the table he shook outupon it ﬁve little dried orange pips.“This is the envelope,” he continued. “The post-mark is London—eastern division. Within are thevery words which were upon my father’s last mes-sage: ‘K. K. K.’; and then ‘Put the papers on thesundial.’ ”“What have you done?” asked Holmes.“Nothing.”“Nothing?”“To tell the truth”—he sank his face into his thin,white hands—“I have felt helpless. I have felt likeone of those poor rabbits when the snake is writhing“Nothing.”“Nothing?”“To tell the truth”—he sank his face into his thin,white hands—“I have felt helpless. I have felt likeone of those poor rabbits when the snake is writhingtowards it. I seem to be in the grasp of some resistless,inexorable evil, which no foresight and no precautionscan guard against.”“Tut! tut!” cried Sherlock Holmes. “You must act,man, or you are lost. Nothing but energy can saveyou. This is no time for despair.”“I have seen the police.”“Ah!”“But they listened to my story with a smile. I amconvinced that the inspector has formed the opinion60TheFiveOrange Pipsthat the letters are all practical jokes, and that thedeaths of my relations were really accidents, as thejury stated, and were not to be connected with thewarnings.”Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air. “In-credible imbecility!” he cried.“They have, however, allowed me a policeman,who may remain in the house with me.”“Has he come with you to-night?”“No. His orders were to stay in the house.”Again Holmes raved in the air.“Why did you come to me,” he cried, “and, aboveall, why did you not come at once?”“I did not know. It was only to-day that I spoketo Major Prendergast about my troubles and was ad-vised by him to come to you.”“It is really two days since you had the letter. Weshould have acted before this. You have no furtherevidence, I suppose, than that which you have placedbefore us—no suggestive detail which might helpus?”“There is one thing,” said John Openshaw. Herummaged in his coat pocket, and, drawing out apiece of discoloured, blue-tinted paper, he laid it outupon the table. “I have some remembrance,” said he,“that on the day when my uncle burned the papers Iobserved that the small, unburned margins which layamid the ashes were of this particular colour. I foundthis single sheet upon the ﬂoor of his room, and Iam inclined to think that it may be one of the paperswhich has, perhaps, ﬂuttered out from among the oth-ers, and in that way has escaped destruction. Beyondthe mention of pips, I do not see that it helps us much.I think myself that it is a page from some privatediary. The writing is undoubtedly my uncle’s.”Holmes moved the lamp, and we both bent overthe sheet of paper, which showed by its ragged edgethat it had indeed been torn from a book. It washeaded, “March, 1869 ,” and beneath were the follow-ing enigmatical notices:4th. Hudson came. Same old platform.7th.Set the pips on McCauley, Paramore, and JohnSwain, of St. Augustine.9th. McCauley cleared.10th. John Swain cleared.12th. Visited Paramore. All well.“Thank you!” said Holmes, folding up the paperand returning it to our visitor. “And now you muston no account lose another instant. We cannot sparetime even to discuss what you have told me. Youmust get home instantly and act.”“What shall I do?”“There is but one thing to do. It must be done atonce. You must put this piece of paper which youhave shown us into the brass box which you havedescribed. You must also put in a note to say that allthe other papers were burned by your uncle, and thatthis is the only one which remains. You must assertthat in such words as will carry conviction with them.Having done this, you must at once put the box outupon the sundial, as directed. Do you understand?”“Entirely.”“Do not think of revenge, or anything of the sort,at present. I think that we may gain that by means ofthe law; but we have our web to weave, while theirsis already woven. The ﬁrst consideration is to removethe pressing danger which threatens you. The secondis to clear up the mystery and to punish the guiltyparties.”“I thank you,” said the young man, rising andpulling on his overcoat. “You have given me fresh lifeand hope. I shall certainly do as you advise.”“Do not lose an instant. And, above all, take careof yourself in the meanwhile, for I do not think thatthere can be a doubt that you are threatened by a veryreal and imminent danger. How do you go back?”“By train from Waterloo.”“It is not yet nine. The streets will be crowded, soI trust that you may be in safety. And yet you cannotguard yourself too closely.”“I am armed.”“That is well. To-morrow I shall set to work uponyour case.”“I shall see you at Horsham, then?”“No, your secret lies in London. It is there that Ishall seek it.”“Then I shall call upon you in a day, or in twodays, with news as to the box and the papers. I shalltake your advice in every particular.” He shook handswith us and took his leave. Outside the wind stilldays, with news as to the box and the papers. I shalltake your advice in every particular.” He shook handswith us and took his leave. Outside the wind stillscreamed and the rain splashed and pattered againstthe windows. This strange, wild story seemed to havecome to us from amid the mad elements—blown inupon us like a sheet of sea-weed in a gale—and nowto have been reabsorbed by them once more.61TheFiveOrange PipsSherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, withhis head sunk forward and his eyes bent upon thered glow of the ﬁre. Then he lit his pipe, and leaningback in his chair he watched the blue smoke-rings asthey chased each other up to the ceiling.“I think, Watson,” he remarked at last, “that of allour cases we have had none more fantastic than this.”“Save, perhaps, the Sign of Four.”“Well, yes. Save, perhaps, that. And yet this JohnOpenshaw seems to me to be walking amid evengreater perils than did the Sholtos.”“But have you,” I asked, “formed any deﬁniteconception as to what these perils are?”“There can be no question as to their nature,” heanswered.“Then what are they? Who is this K. K. K., andwhy does he pursue this unhappy family?”Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed hiselbows upon the arms of his chair, with his ﬁnger-tipstogether. “The ideal reasoner,” he remarked, “would,when he had once been shown a single fact in allits bearings, deduce from it not only all the chain ofevents which led up to it but also all the results whichwould follow from it. As Cuvier could correctly de-scribe a whole animal by the contemplation of a singlebone, so the observer who has thoroughly understoodone link in a series of incidents should be able to ac-curately state all the other ones, both before and after.We have not yet grasped the results which the reasonalone can attain to. Problems may be solved in thestudy which have bafﬂed all those who have soughta solution by the aid of their senses. To carry the art,however, to its highest pitch, it is necessary that thereasoner should be able to utilise all the facts whichhave come to his knowledge; and this in itself implies,as you will readily see, a possession of all knowledge,which, even in these days of free education and ency-clopaedias, is a somewhat rare accomplishment. It isnot so impossible, however, that a man should possessall knowledge which is likely to be useful to him inhis work, and this I have endeavoured in my case todo. If I remember rightly, you on one occasion, in theearly days of our friendship, deﬁned my limits in avery precise fashion.”“Yes,” I answered, laughing. “It was a singulardocument. Philosophy, astronomy, and politics weremarked at zero, I remember. Botany variable, geol-ogy profound as regards the mud-stains from anyregion within ﬁfty miles of town, chemistry eccen-tric, anatomy unsystematic, sensational literature andcrime records unique, violin-player, boxer, swords-man, lawyer, and self-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco.Those, I think, were the main points of my analysis.”Holmes grinned at the last item. “Well,” he said,“I say now, as I said then, that a man should keep hislittle brain-attic stocked with all the furniture that heis likely to use, and the rest he can put away in thelumber-room of his library, where he can get it if hewants it. Now, for such a case as the one which hasbeen submitted to us to-night, we need certainly tomuster all our resources. Kindly hand me down theletter K of the ‘American Encyclopaedia’ which standsupon the shelf beside you. Thank you. Now let usconsider the situation and see what may be deducedfrom it. In the ﬁrst place, we may start with a strongpresumption that Colonel Openshaw had some verystrong reason for leaving America. Men at his time oflife do not change all their habits and exchange will-ingly the charming climate of Florida for the lonelylife of an English provincial town. His extreme loveof solitude in England suggests the idea that he wasin fear of someone or something, so we may assumeas a working hypothesis that it was fear of someoneor something which drove him from America. Asto what it was he feared, we can only deduce thatby considering the formidable letters which were re-ceived by himself and his successors. Did you remarkthe postmarks of those letters?”“The ﬁrst was from Pondicherry, the second fromby considering the formidable letters which were re-ceived by himself and his successors. Did you remarkthe postmarks of those letters?”“The ﬁrst was from Pondicherry, the second fromDundee, and the third from London.”“From East London. What do you deduce fromthat?”“They are all seaports. That the writer was onboard of a ship.”“Excellent. We have already a clue. There can beno doubt that the probability—the strong probabil-ity—is that the writer was on board of a ship. Andnow let us consider another point. In the case ofPondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the threatand its fulﬁlment, in Dundee it was only some threeor four days. Does that suggest anything?”“A greater distance to travel.”“But the letter had also a greater distance tocome.”“Then I do not see the point.”“There is at least a presumption that the vessel inwhich the man or men are is a sailing-ship. It looks asif they always send their singular warning or token be-fore them when starting upon their mission. You seehow quickly the deed followed the sign when it came62TheFiveOrange Pipsfrom Dundee. If they had come from Pondicherryin a steamer they would have arrived almost as soonas their letter. But, as a matter of fact, seven weekselapsed. I think that those seven weeks representedthe difference between the mail-boat which broughtthe letter and the sailing vessel which brought thewriter.”“It is possible.”“More than that. It is probable. And now you seethe deadly urgency of this new case, and why I urgedyoung Openshaw to caution. The blow has alwaysfallen at the end of the time which it would take thesenders to travel the distance. But this one comesfrom London, and therefore we cannot count upondelay.”“Good God!” I cried. “What can it mean, thisrelentless persecution?”“The papers which Openshaw carried are obvi-ously of vital importance to the person or personsin the sailing-ship. I think that it is quite clear thatthere must be more than one of them. A single mancould not have carried out two deaths in such a wayas to deceive a coroner’s jury. There must have beenseveral in it, and they must have been men of resourceand determination. Their papers they mean to have,be the holder of them who it may. In this way you seeK. K. K. ceases to be the initials of an individual andbecomes the badge of a society.”“But of what society?”“Have you never—” said Sherlock Holmes, bend-ing forward and sinking his voice—“have you neverheard of the Ku Klux Klan?”“I never have.”Holmes turned over the leaves of the book uponhis knee. “Here it is,” said he presently:“ ‘Ku Klux Klan. A name derived from thefanciful resemblance to the sound producedby cocking a riﬂe. This terrible secret soci-ety was formed by some ex-Confederate sol-diers in the Southern states after the CivilWar, and it rapidly formed local branches indifferent parts of the country, notably in Ten-nessee, Louisiana, the Carolinas, Georgia, andFlorida. Its power was used for political pur-poses, principally for the terrorising of thenegro voters and the murdering and drivingfrom the country of those who were opposed toits views. Its outrages were usually precededby a warning sent to the marked man in somefantastic but generally recognised shape—asprig of oak-leaves in some parts, melon seedsor orange pips in others. On receiving thisthe victim might either openly abjure his for-mer ways, or might ﬂy from the country. Ifhe braved the matter out, death would unfail-ingly come upon him, and usually in somestrange and unforeseen manner. So perfectwas the organisation of the society, and sosystematic its methods, that there is hardlya case upon record where any man succeededin braving it with impunity, or in which anyof its outrages were traced home to the per-petrators. For some years the organisationﬂourished in spite of the efforts of the UnitedStates government and of the better classes ofthe community in the South. Eventually, inthe year 1869 , the movement rather suddenlycollapsed, although there have been sporadicoutbreaks of the same sort since that date.’“You will observe,” said Holmes, laying down thevolume, “that the sudden breaking up of the societywas coincident with the disappearance of Openshawfrom America with their papers. It may well havebeen cause and effect. It is no wonder that he andhis family have some of the more implacable spiritsupon their track. You can understand that this regis-ter and diary may implicate some of the ﬁrst men inthe South, and that there may be many who will notsleep easy at night until it is recovered.”“Then the page we have seen—”“Is such as we might expect. It ran, if I rememberright, ‘sent the pips to A, B, and C’—that is, sent thesociety’s warning to them. Then there are successiveentries that A and B cleared, or left the country, andﬁnally that C was visited, with, I fear, a sinister resultfor C. Well, I think, Doctor, that we may let some lightinto this dark place, and I believe that the only chanceﬁnally that C was visited, with, I fear, a sinister resultfor C. Well, I think, Doctor, that we may let some lightinto this dark place, and I believe that the only chanceyoung Openshaw has in the meantime is to do what Ihave told him. There is nothing more to be said or tobe done to-night, so hand me over my violin and letus try to forget for half an hour the miserable weatherand the still more miserable ways of our fellow-men.”It had cleared in the morning, and the sun wasshining with a subdued brightness through the dimveil which hangs over the great city. Sherlock Holmeswas already at breakfast when I came down.“You will excuse me for not waiting for you,” saidhe; “I have, I foresee, a very busy day before me inlooking into this case of young Openshaw’s.”“What steps will you take?” I asked.“It will very much depend upon the results of myﬁrst inquiries. I may have to go down to Horsham,after all.”63TheFiveOrange Pips“You will not go there ﬁrst?”“No, I shall commence with the City. Just ring thebell and the maid will bring up your coffee.”As I waited, I lifted the unopened newspaper fromthe table and glanced my eye over it. It rested upon aheading which sent a chill to my heart.“Holmes,” I cried, “you are too late.”“Ah!” said he, laying down his cup, “I feared asmuch. How was it done?” He spoke calmly, but Icould see that he was deeply moved.“My eye caught the name of Openshaw, and theheading ‘Tragedy Near Waterloo Bridge.’ Here is theaccount:“Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook, of the H Division, on dutynear Waterloo Bridge, heard a cry for help anda splash in the water. The night, however, wasextremely dark and stormy, so that, in spiteof the help of several passers-by, it was quiteimpossible to effect a rescue. The alarm, how-ever, was given, and, by the aid of the water-police, the body was eventually recovered. Itproved to be that of a young gentleman whosename, as it appears from an envelope whichwas found in his pocket, was John Openshaw,and whose residence is near Horsham. It isconjectured that he may have been hurryingdown to catch the last train from WaterlooStation, and that in his haste and the extremedarkness he missed his path and walked overthe edge of one of the small landing-places forriver steamboats. The body exhibited no tracesof violence, and there can be no doubt that thedeceased had been the victim of an unfortu-nate accident, which should have the effect ofcalling the attention of the authorities to thecondition of the riverside landing-stages.”We sat in silence for some minutes, Holmes moredepressed and shaken than I had ever seen him.“That hurts my pride, Watson,” he said at last. “Itis a petty feeling, no doubt, but it hurts my pride. Itbecomes a personal matter with me now, and, if Godsends me health, I shall set my hand upon this gang.That he should come to me for help, and that I shouldsend him away to his death—!” He sprang from hischair and paced about the room in uncontrollableagitation, with a ﬂush upon his sallow cheeks anda nervous clasping and unclasping of his long thinhands.“They must be cunning devils,” he exclaimed atlast. “How could they have decoyed him down there?The Embankment is not on the direct line to the sta-tion. The bridge, no doubt, was too crowded, evenon such a night, for their purpose. Well, Watson, weshall see who will win in the long run. I am goingout now!”“To the police?”“No; I shall be my own police. When I have spunthe web they may take the ﬂies, but not before.”All day I was engaged in my professional work,and it was late in the evening before I returned toBaker Street. Sherlock Holmes had not come backyet. It was nearly ten o’clock before he entered, look-ing pale and worn. He walked up to the sideboard,and tearing a piece from the loaf he devoured it vo-raciously, washing it down with a long draught ofwater.“You are hungry,” I remarked.“Starving. It had escaped my memory. I have hadnothing since breakfast.”“Nothing?”“Not a bite. I had no time to think of it.”“And how have you succeeded?”“Well.”“You have a clue?”“I have them in the hollow of my hand. YoungOpenshaw shall not long remain unavenged. Why,Watson, let us put their own devilish trade-mark uponthem. It is well thought of!”“What do you mean?”He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearingit to pieces he squeezed out the pips upon the table.Of these he took ﬁve and thrust them into an envelope.On the inside of the ﬂap he wrote “S. H. for J. O.”Then he sealed it and addressed it to “Captain JamesCalhoun, Barque Lone Star , Savannah, Georgia.”“That will await him when he enters port,” saidhe, chuckling. “It may give him a sleepless night. Hewill ﬁnd it as sure a precursor of his fate as Openshawdid before him.”“And who is this Captain Calhoun?”“The leader of the gang. I shall have the others,will ﬁnd it as sure a precursor of his fate as Openshawdid before him.”“And who is this Captain Calhoun?”“The leader of the gang. I shall have the others,but he ﬁrst.”“How did you trace it, then?”He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket, allcovered with dates and names.“I have spent the whole day,” said he, “overLloyd’s registers and ﬁles of the old papers, followingthe future career of every vessel which touched atPondicherry in January and February in ’ 83. There64TheFiveOrange Pipswere thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which were re-ported there during those months. Of these, one,theLone Star , instantly attracted my attention, since,although it was reported as having cleared from Lon-don, the name is that which is given to one of thestates of the Union.”“Texas, I think.”“I was not and am not sure which; but I knew thatthe ship must have an American origin.”“What then?”“I searched the Dundee records, and when I foundthat the barque Lone Star was there in January, ’ 85, mysuspicion became a certainty. I then inquired as to thevessels which lay at present in the port of London.”“Yes?”“The Lone Star had arrived here last week. I wentdown to the Albert Dock and found that she had beentaken down the river by the early tide this morning,homeward bound to Savannah. I wired to Gravesendand learned that she had passed some time ago, andas the wind is easterly I have no doubt that she is nowpast the Goodwins and not very far from the Isle ofWight.”“What will you do, then?”“Oh, I have my hand upon him. He and the twomates, are as I learn, the only native-born Americansin the ship. The others are Finns and Germans. Iknow, also, that they were all three away from theship last night. I had it from the stevedore who hasbeen loading their cargo. By the time that their sailing-ship reaches Savannah the mail-boat will have carriedthis letter, and the cable will have informed the po-lice of Savannah that these three gentlemen are badlywanted here upon a charge of murder.”There is ever a ﬂaw, however, in the best laid ofhuman plans, and the murderers of John Openshawwere never to receive the orange pips which wouldshow them that another, as cunning and as resolute asthemselves, was upon their track. Very long and verysevere were the equinoctial gales that year. We waitedlong for news of the Lone Star of Savannah, but noneever reached us. We did at last hear that somewherefar out in the Atlantic a shattered stern-post of a boatwas seen swinging in the trough of a wave, with theletters “L. S.” carved upon it, and that is all which weshall ever know of the fate of the Lone Star .65The Man with the Twisted LipTheMan with the Twisted LipIsaWhitney ,brother of the late Elias Whit-ney, D.D., Principal of the Theological Col-lege of St. George’s, was much addicted toopium. The habit grew upon him, as I un-derstand, from some foolish freak when he was atcollege; for having read De Quincey’s description ofhis dreams and sensations, he had drenched his to-bacco with laudanum in an attempt to produce thesame effects. He found, as so many more have done,that the practice is easier to attain than to get ridof, and for many years he continued to be a slave tothe drug, an object of mingled horror and pity to hisfriends and relatives. I can see him now, with yellow,pasty face, drooping lids, and pin-point pupils, allhuddled in a chair, the wreck and ruin of a nobleman.One night—it was in June, ’ 89—there came a ringto my bell, about the hour when a man gives his ﬁrstyawn and glances at the clock. I sat up in my chair,and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lapand made a little face of disappointment.“A patient!” said she. “You’ll have to go out.”I groaned, for I was newly come back from a wearyday.We heard the door open, a few hurried words, andthen quick steps upon the linoleum. Our own doorﬂew open, and a lady, clad in some dark-colouredstuff, with a black veil, entered the room.“You will excuse my calling so late,” she began,and then, suddenly losing her self-control, she ranforward, threw her arms about my wife’s neck, andsobbed upon her shoulder. “Oh, I’m in such trouble!”she cried; “I do so want a little help.”“Why,” said my wife, pulling up her veil, “it isKate Whitney. How you startled me, Kate! I had notan idea who you were when you came in.”“I didn’t know what to do, so I came straight toyou.” That was always the way. Folk who were ingrief came to my wife like birds to a light-house.“It was very sweet of you to come. Now, you musthave some wine and water, and sit here comfortablyand tell us all about it. Or should you rather that Isent James off to bed?”“Oh, no, no! I want the doctor’s advice and help,too. It’s about Isa. He has not been home for twodays. I am so frightened about him!”It was not the ﬁrst time that she had spoken tous of her husband’s trouble, to me as a doctor, tomy wife as an old friend and school companion. Wesoothed and comforted her by such words as we couldﬁnd. Did she know where her husband was? Was itpossible that we could bring him back to her?It seems that it was. She had the surest informa-tion that of late he had, when the ﬁt was on him,made use of an opium den in the farthest east of theCity. Hitherto his orgies had always been conﬁnedto one day, and he had come back, twitching andshattered, in the evening. But now the spell had beenupon him eight-and-forty hours, and he lay there,doubtless among the dregs of the docks, breathing inthe poison or sleeping off the effects. There he wasto be found, she was sure of it, at the Bar of Gold, inUpper Swandam Lane. But what was she to do? Howcould she, a young and timid woman, make her wayinto such a place and pluck her husband out fromamong the rufﬁans who surrounded him?There was the case, and of course there was butone way out of it. Might I not escort her to this place?And then, as a second thought, why should she comeat all? I was Isa Whitney’s medical adviser, and assuch I had inﬂuence over him. I could manage itbetter if I were alone. I promised her on my word thatI would send him home in a cab within two hours ifhe were indeed at the address which she had givenme. And so in ten minutes I had left my armchairand cheery sitting-room behind me, and was speed-ing eastward in a hansom on a strange errand, asit seemed to me at the time, though the future onlycould show how strange it was to be.But there was no great difﬁculty in the ﬁrst stageof my adventure. Upper Swandam Lane is a vile al-ley lurking behind the high wharves which line thecould show how strange it was to be.But there was no great difﬁculty in the ﬁrst stageof my adventure. Upper Swandam Lane is a vile al-ley lurking behind the high wharves which line thenorth side of the river to the east of London Bridge.Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop, approached by asteep ﬂight of steps leading down to a black gap likethe mouth of a cave, I found the den of which I wasin search. Ordering my cab to wait, I passed downthe steps, worn hollow in the centre by the ceaselesstread of drunken feet; and by the light of a ﬂickeringoil-lamp above the door I found the latch and mademy way into a long, low room, thick and heavy withthe brown opium smoke, and terraced with woodenberths, like the forecastle of an emigrant ship.Through the gloom one could dimly catch aglimpse of bodies lying in strange fantastic poses,bowed shoulders, bent knees, heads thrown back, andchins pointing upward, with here and there a dark,lack-lustre eye turned upon the newcomer. Out ofthe black shadows there glimmered little red circlesof light, now bright, now faint, as the burning poisonwaxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes. Themost lay silent, but some muttered to themselves, and69TheMan with the Twisted Lipothers talked together in a strange, low, monotonousvoice, their conversation coming in gushes, and thensuddenly tailing off into silence, each mumbling outhis own thoughts and paying little heed to the wordsof his neighbour. At the farther end was a smallbrazier of burning charcoal, beside which on a three-legged wooden stool there sat a tall, thin old man,with his jaw resting upon his two ﬁsts, and his elbowsupon his knees, staring into the ﬁre.As I entered, a sallow Malay attendant had hur-ried up with a pipe for me and a supply of the drug,beckoning me to an empty berth.“Thank you. I have not come to stay,” said I.“There is a friend of mine here, Mr. Isa Whitney, andI wish to speak with him.”There was a movement and an exclamation frommy right, and peering through the gloom, I saw Whit-ney, pale, haggard, and unkempt, staring out at me.“My God! It’s Watson,” said he. He was in apitiable state of reaction, with every nerve in a twitter.“I say, Watson, what o’clock is it?”“Nearly eleven.”“Of what day?”“Of Friday, June 19th.”“Good heavens! I thought it was Wednesday. It isWednesday. What d’you want to frighten a chap for?”He sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in ahigh treble key.“I tell you that it is Friday, man. Your wife hasbeen waiting this two days for you. You should beashamed of yourself!”“So I am. But you’ve got mixed, Watson, for Ihave only been here a few hours, three pipes, fourpipes—I forget how many. But I’ll go home with you.I wouldn’t frighten Kate—poor little Kate. Give meyour hand! Have you a cab?”“Yes, I have one waiting.”“Then I shall go in it. But I must owe something.Find what I owe, Watson. I am all off colour. I can donothing for myself.”I walked down the narrow passage between thedouble row of sleepers, holding my breath to keepout the vile, stupefying fumes of the drug, and look-ing about for the manager. As I passed the tall manwho sat by the brazier I felt a sudden pluck at myskirt, and a low voice whispered, “Walk past me, andthen look back at me.” The words fell quite distinctlyupon my ear. I glanced down. They could only havecome from the old man at my side, and yet he satnow as absorbed as ever, very thin, very wrinkled,bent with age, an opium pipe dangling down frombetween his knees, as though it had dropped in sheerlassitude from his ﬁngers. I took two steps forwardand looked back. It took all my self-control to preventme from breaking out into a cry of astonishment. Hehad turned his back so that none could see him but I.His form had ﬁlled out, his wrinkles were gone, thedull eyes had regained their ﬁre, and there, sitting bythe ﬁre and grinning at my surprise, was none otherthan Sherlock Holmes. He made a slight motion tome to approach him, and instantly, as he turned hisface half round to the company once more, subsidedinto a doddering, loose-lipped senility.“Holmes!” I whispered, “what on earth are youdoing in this den?”“As low as you can,” he answered; “I have ex-cellent ears. If you would have the great kindnessto get rid of that sottish friend of yours I should beexceedingly glad to have a little talk with you.”“I have a cab outside.”“Then pray send him home in it. You may safelytrust him, for he appears to be too limp to get intoany mischief. I should recommend you also to send anote by the cabman to your wife to say that you havethrown in your lot with me. If you will wait outside,I shall be with you in ﬁve minutes.”It was difﬁcult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes’requests, for they were always so exceedingly deﬁnite,and put forward with such a quiet air of mastery. Ifelt, however, that when Whitney was once conﬁnedin the cab my mission was practically accomplished;and for the rest, I could not wish anything better thanto be associated with my friend in one of those sin-gular adventures which were the normal conditionand for the rest, I could not wish anything better thanto be associated with my friend in one of those sin-gular adventures which were the normal conditionof his existence. In a few minutes I had written mynote, paid Whitney’s bill, led him out to the cab, andseen him driven through the darkness. In a very shorttime a decrepit ﬁgure had emerged from the opiumden, and I was walking down the street with SherlockHolmes. For two streets he shufﬂed along with a bentback and an uncertain foot. Then, glancing quicklyround, he straightened himself out and burst into ahearty ﬁt of laughter.“I suppose, Watson,” said he, “that you imaginethat I have added opium-smoking to cocaine injec-tions, and all the other little weaknesses on which youhave favoured me with your medical views.”“I was certainly surprised to ﬁnd you there.”“But not more so than I to ﬁnd you.”“I came to ﬁnd a friend.”“And I to ﬁnd an enemy.”70TheMan with the Twisted Lip“An enemy?”“Yes; one of my natural enemies, or, shall I say,my natural prey. Brieﬂy, Watson, I am in the midstof a very remarkable inquiry, and I have hoped toﬁnd a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots,as I have done before now. Had I been recognisedin that den my life would not have been worth anhour’s purchase; for I have used it before now for myown purposes, and the rascally Lascar who runs ithas sworn to have vengeance upon me. There is atrap-door at the back of that building, near the cornerof Paul’s Wharf, which could tell some strange talesof what has passed through it upon the moonlessnights.”“What! You do not mean bodies?”“Ay, bodies, Watson. We should be rich men if wehad £1000 for every poor devil who has been done todeath in that den. It is the vilest murder-trap on thewhole riverside, and I fear that Neville St. Clair hasentered it never to leave it more. But our trap shouldbe here.” He put his two foreﬁngers between his teethand whistled shrilly—a signal which was answered bya similar whistle from the distance, followed shortlyby the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses’ hoofs.“Now, Watson,” said Holmes, as a tall dog-cartdashed up through the gloom, throwing out twogolden tunnels of yellow light from its side lanterns.“You’ll come with me, won’t you?”“If I can be of use.”“Oh, a trusty comrade is always of use; and achronicler still more so. My room at The Cedars is adouble-bedded one.”“The Cedars?”“Yes; that is Mr. St. Clair’s house. I am stayingthere while I conduct the inquiry.”“Where is it, then?”“Near Lee, in Kent. We have a seven-mile drivebefore us.”“But I am all in the dark.”“Of course you are. You’ll know all about itpresently. Jump up here. All right, John; we shallnot need you. Here’s half a crown. Look out for meto-morrow, about eleven. Give her her head. So long,then!”He ﬂicked the horse with his whip, and we dashedaway through the endless succession of sombre anddeserted streets, which widened gradually, until wewere ﬂying across a broad balustraded bridge, withthe murky river ﬂowing sluggishly beneath us. Be-yond lay another dull wilderness of bricks and mortar,its silence broken only by the heavy, regular footfallof the policeman, or the songs and shouts of somebelated party of revellers. A dull wrack was drift-ing slowly across the sky, and a star or two twinkleddimly here and there through the rifts of the clouds.Holmes drove in silence, with his head sunk upon hisbreast, and the air of a man who is lost in thought,while I sat beside him, curious to learn what this newquest might be which seemed to tax his powers sosorely, and yet afraid to break in upon the current ofhis thoughts. We had driven several miles, and werebeginning to get to the fringe of the belt of suburbanvillas, when he shook himself, shrugged his shoul-ders, and lit up his pipe with the air of a man whohas satisﬁed himself that he is acting for the best.“You have a grand gift of silence, Watson,” said he.“It makes you quite invaluable as a companion. ’Ponmy word, it is a great thing for me to have someoneto talk to, for my own thoughts are not over-pleasant.I was wondering what I should say to this dear littlewoman to-night when she meets me at the door.”“You forget that I know nothing about it.”“I shall just have time to tell you the facts of thecase before we get to Lee. It seems absurdly sim-ple, and yet, somehow I can get nothing to go upon.There’s plenty of thread, no doubt, but I can’t get theend of it into my hand. Now, I’ll state the case clearlyand concisely to you, Watson, and maybe you can seea spark where all is dark to me.”“Proceed, then.”“Some years ago—to be deﬁnite, in May,1884 —there came to Lee a gentleman, Neville St. Clairby name, who appeared to have plenty of money. Hetook a large villa, laid out the grounds very nicely,and lived generally in good style. By degrees heby name, who appeared to have plenty of money. Hetook a large villa, laid out the grounds very nicely,and lived generally in good style. By degrees hemade friends in the neighbourhood, and in 1887 hemarried the daughter of a local brewer, by whom henow has two children. He had no occupation, butwas interested in several companies and went intotown as a rule in the morning, returning by the 5.14from Cannon Street every night. Mr. St. Clair is nowthirty-seven years of age, is a man of temperate habits,a good husband, a very affectionate father, and a manwho is popular with all who know him. I may addthat his whole debts at the present moment, as far aswe have been able to ascertain, amount to £88 10 s.,while he has £220standing to his credit in the Capitaland Counties Bank. There is no reason, therefore, tothink that money troubles have been weighing uponhis mind.“Last Monday Mr. Neville St. Clair went into townrather earlier than usual, remarking before he started71TheMan with the Twisted Lipthat he had two important commissions to perform,and that he would bring his little boy home a box ofbricks. Now, by the merest chance, his wife receiveda telegram upon this same Monday, very shortly af-ter his departure, to the effect that a small parcel ofconsiderable value which she had been expecting waswaiting for her at the ofﬁces of the Aberdeen ShippingCompany. Now, if you are well up in your London,you will know that the ofﬁce of the company is inFresno Street, which branches out of Upper SwandamLane, where you found me to-night. Mrs. St. Clair hadher lunch, started for the City, did some shopping,proceeded to the company’s ofﬁce, got her packet,and found herself at exactly 4.35walking throughSwandam Lane on her way back to the station. Haveyou followed me so far?”“It is very clear.”“If you remember, Monday was an exceedinglyhot day, and Mrs. St. Clair walked slowly, glancingabout in the hope of seeing a cab, as she did notlike the neighbourhood in which she found herself.While she was walking in this way down SwandamLane, she suddenly heard an ejaculation or cry, andwas struck cold to see her husband looking down ather and, as it seemed to her, beckoning to her from asecond-ﬂoor window. The window was open, and shedistinctly saw his face, which she describes as beingterribly agitated. He waved his hands frantically toher, and then vanished from the window so suddenlythat it seemed to her that he had been plucked backby some irresistible force from behind. One singu-lar point which struck her quick feminine eye wasthat although he wore some dark coat, such as hehad started to town in, he had on neither collar nornecktie.“Convinced that something was amiss with him,she rushed down the steps—for the house was noneother than the opium den in which you found meto-night—and running through the front room sheattempted to ascend the stairs which led to the ﬁrstﬂoor. At the foot of the stairs, however, she met thisLascar scoundrel of whom I have spoken, who thrusther back and, aided by a Dane, who acts as assistantthere, pushed her out into the street. Filled with themost maddening doubts and fears, she rushed downthe lane and, by rare good-fortune, met in FresnoStreet a number of constables with an inspector, allon their way to their beat. The inspector and two menaccompanied her back, and in spite of the continuedresistance of the proprietor, they made their way tothe room in which Mr. St. Clair had last been seen.There was no sign of him there. In fact, in the wholeof that ﬂoor there was no one to be found save a crip-pled wretch of hideous aspect, who, it seems, madehis home there. Both he and the Lascar stoutly sworethat no one else had been in the front room duringthe afternoon. So determined was their denial thatthe inspector was staggered, and had almost come tobelieve that Mrs. St. Clair had been deluded when,with a cry, she sprang at a small deal box which layupon the table and tore the lid from it. Out there fella cascade of children’s bricks. It was the toy which hehad promised to bring home.“This discovery, and the evident confusion whichthe cripple showed, made the inspector realise thatthe matter was serious. The rooms were carefullyexamined, and results all pointed to an abominablecrime. The front room was plainly furnished as asitting-room and led into a small bedroom, whichlooked out upon the back of one of the wharves. Be-tween the wharf and the bedroom window is a nar-row strip, which is dry at low tide but is covered athigh tide with at least four and a half feet of water.The bedroom window was a broad one and openedfrom below. On examination traces of blood were tobe seen upon the windowsill, and several scattereddrops were visible upon the wooden ﬂoor of the bed-room. Thrust away behind a curtain in the front roomwere all the clothes of Mr. Neville St. Clair, with thedrops were visible upon the wooden ﬂoor of the bed-room. Thrust away behind a curtain in the front roomwere all the clothes of Mr. Neville St. Clair, with theexception of his coat. His boots, his socks, his hat,and his watch—all were there. There were no signs ofviolence upon any of these garments, and there wereno other traces of Mr. Neville St. Clair. Out of thewindow he must apparently have gone for no otherexit could be discovered, and the ominous bloodstainsupon the sill gave little promise that he could savehimself by swimming, for the tide was at its veryhighest at the moment of the tragedy.“And now as to the villains who seemed to beimmediately implicated in the matter. The Lascar wasknown to be a man of the vilest antecedents, but as,by Mrs. St. Clair’s story, he was known to have beenat the foot of the stair within a very few seconds ofher husband’s appearance at the window, he couldhardly have been more than an accessory to the crime.His defence was one of absolute ignorance, and heprotested that he had no knowledge as to the doingsof Hugh Boone, his lodger, and that he could notaccount in any way for the presence of the missinggentleman’s clothes.“So much for the Lascar manager. Now for thesinister cripple who lives upon the second ﬂoor of theopium den, and who was certainly the last humanbeing whose eyes rested upon Neville St. Clair. His72TheMan with the Twisted Lipname is Hugh Boone, and his hideous face is onewhich is familiar to every man who goes much tothe City. He is a professional beggar, though in or-der to avoid the police regulations he pretends to asmall trade in wax vestas. Some little distance downThreadneedle Street, upon the left-hand side, thereis, as you may have remarked, a small angle in thewall. Here it is that this creature takes his daily seat,cross-legged with his tiny stock of matches on his lap,and as he is a piteous spectacle a small rain of charitydescends into the greasy leather cap which lies uponthe pavement beside him. I have watched the fellowmore than once before ever I thought of making hisprofessional acquaintance, and I have been surprisedat the harvest which he has reaped in a short time.His appearance, you see, is so remarkable that noone can pass him without observing him. A shock oforange hair, a pale face disﬁgured by a horrible scar,which, by its contraction, has turned up the outeredge of his upper lip, a bulldog chin, and a pair ofvery penetrating dark eyes, which present a singularcontrast to the colour of his hair, all mark him outfrom amid the common crowd of mendicants and so,too, does his wit, for he is ever ready with a reply toany piece of chaff which may be thrown at him by thepassers-by. This is the man whom we now learn tohave been the lodger at the opium den, and to havebeen the last man to see the gentleman of whom weare in quest.”“But a cripple!” said I. “What could he have donesingle-handed against a man in the prime of life?”“He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with alimp; but in other respects he appears to be a pow-erful and well-nurtured man. Surely your medicalexperience would tell you, Watson, that weaknessin one limb is often compensated for by exceptionalstrength in the others.”“Pray continue your narrative.”“Mrs. St. Clair had fainted at the sight of the bloodupon the window, and she was escorted home in acab by the police, as her presence could be of no helpto them in their investigations. Inspector Barton, whohad charge of the case, made a very careful exami-nation of the premises, but without ﬁnding anythingwhich threw any light upon the matter. One mistakehad been made in not arresting Boone instantly, ashe was allowed some few minutes during which hemight have communicated with his friend the Las-car, but this fault was soon remedied, and he wasseized and searched, without anything being foundwhich could incriminate him. There were, it is true,some blood-stains upon his right shirt-sleeve, but hepointed to his ring-ﬁnger, which had been cut nearthe nail, and explained that the bleeding came fromthere, adding that he had been to the window notlong before, and that the stains which had been ob-served there came doubtless from the same source.He denied strenuously having ever seen Mr. NevilleSt. Clair and swore that the presence of the clothesin his room was as much a mystery to him as to thepolice. As to Mrs. St. Clair’s assertion that she hadactually seen her husband at the window, he declaredthat she must have been either mad or dreaming. Hewas removed, loudly protesting, to the police-station,while the inspector remained upon the premises inthe hope that the ebbing tide might afford some freshclue.“And it did, though they hardly found upon themud-bank what they had feared to ﬁnd. It wasNeville St. Clair’s coat, and not Neville St. Clair,which lay uncovered as the tide receded. And whatdo you think they found in the pockets?”“I cannot imagine.”“No, I don’t think you would guess. Every pocketstuffed with pennies and half-pennies— 421penniesand270half-pennies. It was no wonder that it hadnot been swept away by the tide. But a human bodyis a different matter. There is a ﬁerce eddy betweenthe wharf and the house. It seemed likely enough thatthe weighted coat had remained when the strippedis a different matter. There is a ﬁerce eddy betweenthe wharf and the house. It seemed likely enough thatthe weighted coat had remained when the strippedbody had been sucked away into the river.”“But I understand that all the other clothes werefound in the room. Would the body be dressed in acoat alone?”“No, sir, but the facts might be met speciouslyenough. Suppose that this man Boone had thrustNeville St. Clair through the window, there is nohuman eye which could have seen the deed. Whatwould he do then? It would of course instantly strikehim that he must get rid of the tell-tale garments.He would seize the coat, then, and be in the act ofthrowing it out, when it would occur to him thatit would swim and not sink. He has little time, forhe has heard the scufﬂe downstairs when the wifetried to force her way up, and perhaps he has alreadyheard from his Lascar confederate that the police arehurrying up the street. There is not an instant to belost. He rushes to some secret hoard, where he hasaccumulated the fruits of his beggary, and he stuffsall the coins upon which he can lay his hands into thepockets to make sure of the coat’s sinking. He throwsit out, and would have done the same with the othergarments had not he heard the rush of steps below,73TheMan with the Twisted Lipand only just had time to close the window when thepolice appeared.”“It certainly sounds feasible.”“Well, we will take it as a working hypothesisfor want of a better. Boone, as I have told you, wasarrested and taken to the station, but it could notbe shown that there had ever before been anythingagainst him. He had for years been known as aprofessional beggar, but his life appeared to havebeen a very quiet and innocent one. There the matterstands at present, and the questions which have tobe solved—what Neville St. Clair was doing in theopium den, what happened to him when there, whereis he now, and what Hugh Boone had to do with hisdisappearance—are all as far from a solution as ever.I confess that I cannot recall any case within my expe-rience which looked at the ﬁrst glance so simple andyet which presented such difﬁculties.”While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this sin-gular series of events, we had been whirling throughthe outskirts of the great town until the last stragglinghouses had been left behind, and we rattled alongwith a country hedge upon either side of us. Just ashe ﬁnished, however, we drove through two scatteredvillages, where a few lights still glimmered in thewindows.“We are on the outskirts of Lee,” said my compan-ion. “We have touched on three English counties inour short drive, starting in Middlesex, passing overan angle of Surrey, and ending in Kent. See that lightamong the trees? That is The Cedars, and beside thatlamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already, Ihave little doubt, caught the clink of our horse’s feet.”“But why are you not conducting the case fromBaker Street?” I asked.“Because there are many inquiries which must bemade out here. Mrs. St. Clair has most kindly put tworooms at my disposal, and you may rest assured thatshe will have nothing but a welcome for my friendand colleague. I hate to meet her, Watson, when Ihave no news of her husband. Here we are. Whoa,there, whoa!”We had pulled up in front of a large villa whichstood within its own grounds. A stable-boy had runout to the horse’s head, and springing down, I fol-lowed Holmes up the small, winding gravel-drivewhich led to the house. As we approached, the doorﬂew open, and a little blonde woman stood in theopening, clad in some sort of light mousseline de soie,with a touch of ﬂuffy pink chiffon at her neck andwrists. She stood with her ﬁgure outlined against theﬂood of light, one hand upon the door, one half-raisedin her eagerness, her body slightly bent, her head andface protruded, with eager eyes and parted lips, astanding question.“Well?” she cried, “well?” And then, seeing thatthere were two of us, she gave a cry of hope whichsank into a groan as she saw that my companionshook his head and shrugged his shoulders.“No good news?”“None.”“No bad?”“No.”“Thank God for that. But come in. You must beweary, for you have had a long day.”“This is my friend, Dr. Watson. He has been ofmost vital use to me in several of my cases, and alucky chance has made it possible for me to bring himout and associate him with this investigation.”“I am delighted to see you,” said she, pressing myhand warmly. “You will, I am sure, forgive anythingthat may be wanting in our arrangements, when youconsider the blow which has come so suddenly uponus.”“My dear madam,” said I, “I am an old cam-paigner, and if I were not I can very well see thatno apology is needed. If I can be of any assistance,either to you or to my friend here, I shall be indeedhappy.”“Now, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said the lady aswe entered a well-lit dining-room, upon the table ofwhich a cold supper had been laid out, “I should verymuch like to ask you one or two plain questions, towhich I beg that you will give a plain answer.”“Certainly, madam.”“Do not trouble about my feelings. I am not hys-terical, nor given to fainting. I simply wish to hearyour real, real opinion.”which I beg that you will give a plain answer.”“Certainly, madam.”“Do not trouble about my feelings. I am not hys-terical, nor given to fainting. I simply wish to hearyour real, real opinion.”“Upon what point?”“In your heart of hearts, do you think that Nevilleis alive?”Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed bythe question. “Frankly, now!” she repeated, standingupon the rug and looking keenly down at him as heleaned back in a basket-chair.“Frankly, then, madam, I do not.”“You think that he is dead?”“I do.”“Murdered?”“I don’t say that. Perhaps.”74TheMan with the Twisted Lip“And on what day did he meet his death?”“On Monday.”“Then perhaps, Mr. Holmes, you will be goodenough to explain how it is that I have received aletter from him to-day.”Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if hehad been galvanised.“What!” he roared.“Yes, to-day.” She stood smiling, holding up a littleslip of paper in the air.“May I see it?”“Certainly.”He snatched it from her in his eagerness, andsmoothing it out upon the table he drew over thelamp and examined it intently. I had left my chairand was gazing at it over his shoulder. The envelopewas a very coarse one and was stamped with theGravesend postmark and with the date of that veryday, or rather of the day before, for it was considerablyafter midnight.“Coarse writing,” murmured Holmes. “Surely thisis not your husband’s writing, madam.”“No, but the enclosure is.”“I perceive also that whoever addressed the enve-lope had to go and inquire as to the address.”“How can you tell that?”“The name, you see, is in perfectly black ink,which has dried itself. The rest is of the greyish colour,which shows that blotting-paper has been used. If ithad been written straight off, and then blotted, nonewould be of a deep black shade. This man has writtenthe name, and there has then been a pause before hewrote the address, which can only mean that he wasnot familiar with it. It is, of course, a triﬂe, but thereis nothing so important as triﬂes. Let us now see theletter. Ha! there has been an enclosure here!”“Yes, there was a ring. His signet-ring.”“And you are sure that this is your husband’shand?”“One of his hands.”“One?”“His hand when he wrote hurriedly. It is veryunlike his usual writing, and yet I know it well.”“Dearest do not be frightened. All willcome well. There is a huge error which itmay take some little time to rectify. Waitin patience.— “N eville .Written in pencil upon the ﬂy-leaf of a book, oc-tavo size, no water-mark. Hum! Posted to-day inGravesend by a man with a dirty thumb. Ha! And theﬂap has been gummed, if I am not very much in error,by a person who had been chewing tobacco. Andyou have no doubt that it is your husband’s hand,madam?”“None. Neville wrote those words.”“And they were posted to-day at Gravesend. Well,Mrs. St. Clair, the clouds lighten, though I should notventure to say that the danger is over.”“But he must be alive, Mr. Holmes.”“Unless this is a clever forgery to put us on thewrong scent. The ring, after all, proves nothing. Itmay have been taken from him.”“No, no; it is, it is his very own writing!”“Very well. It may, however, have been written onMonday and only posted to-day.”“That is possible.”“If so, much may have happened between.”“Oh, you must not discourage me, Mr. Holmes.I know that all is well with him. There is so keen asympathy between us that I should know if evil cameupon him. On the very day that I saw him last he cuthimself in the bedroom, and yet I in the dining-roomrushed upstairs instantly with the utmost certaintythat something had happened. Do you think that Iwould respond to such a triﬂe and yet be ignorant ofhis death?”“I have seen too much not to know that the im-pression of a woman may be more valuable than theconclusion of an analytical reasoner. And in this letteryou certainly have a very strong piece of evidence tocorroborate your view. But if your husband is aliveand able to write letters, why should he remain awayfrom you?”“I cannot imagine. It is unthinkable.”“And on Monday he made no remarks before leav-ing you?”“No.”“And you were surprised to see him in SwandamLane?”“Very much so.”“Was the window open?”“Yes.”“Then he might have called to you?”“He might.”75TheMan with the Twisted Lip“He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulatecry?”“Yes.”“A call for help, you thought?”“Yes. He waved his hands.”“But it might have been a cry of surprise. Aston-ishment at the unexpected sight of you might causehim to throw up his hands?”“It is possible.”“And you thought he was pulled back?”“He disappeared so suddenly.”“He might have leaped back. You did not seeanyone else in the room?”“No, but this horrible man confessed to havingbeen there, and the Lascar was at the foot of thestairs.”“Quite so. Your husband, as far as you could see,had his ordinary clothes on?”“But without his collar or tie. I distinctly saw hisbare throat.”“Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?”“Never.”“Had he ever showed any signs of having takenopium?”“Never.”“Thank you, Mrs. St. Clair. Those are the principalpoints about which I wished to be absolutely clear.We shall now have a little supper and then retire, forwe may have a very busy day to-morrow.”A large and comfortable double-bedded room hadbeen placed at our disposal, and I was quickly be-tween the sheets, for I was weary after my night ofadventure. Sherlock Holmes was a man, however,who, when he had an unsolved problem upon hismind, would go for days, and even for a week, with-out rest, turning it over, rearranging his facts, lookingat it from every point of view until he had eitherfathomed it or convinced himself that his data wereinsufﬁcient. It was soon evident to me that he wasnow preparing for an all-night sitting. He took offhis coat and waistcoat, put on a large blue dressing-gown, and then wandered about the room collectingpillows from his bed and cushions from the sofa andarmchairs. With these he constructed a sort of Easterndivan, upon which he perched himself cross-legged,with an ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matcheslaid out in front of him. In the dim light of the lamp Isaw him sitting there, an old briar pipe between hislips, his eyes ﬁxed vacantly upon the corner of theceiling, the blue smoke curling up from him, silent,motionless, with the light shining upon his strong-setaquiline features. So he sat as I dropped off to sleep,and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused meto wake up, and I found the summer sun shining intothe apartment. The pipe was still between his lips, thesmoke still curled upward, and the room was full of adense tobacco haze, but nothing remained of the heapof shag which I had seen upon the previous night.“Awake, Watson?” he asked.“Yes.”“Game for a morning drive?”“Certainly.”“Then dress. No one is stirring yet, but I knowwhere the stable-boy sleeps, and we shall soon havethe trap out.” He chuckled to himself as he spoke, hiseyes twinkled, and he seemed a different man to thesombre thinker of the previous night.As I dressed I glanced at my watch. It was nowonder that no one was stirring. It was twenty-ﬁveminutes past four. I had hardly ﬁnished when Holmesreturned with the news that the boy was putting inthe horse.“I want to test a little theory of mine,” said he,pulling on his boots. “I think, Watson, that you arenow standing in the presence of one of the most ab-solute fools in Europe. I deserve to be kicked fromhere to Charing Cross. But I think I have the key ofthe affair now.”“And where is it?” I asked, smiling.“In the bathroom,” he answered. “Oh, yes, Iam not joking,” he continued, seeing my look of in-credulity. “I have just been there, and I have taken itout, and I have got it in this Gladstone bag. Come on,my boy, and we shall see whether it will not ﬁt thelock.”We made our way downstairs as quietly as pos-sible, and out into the bright morning sunshine. Inthe road stood our horse and trap, with the half-cladstable-boy waiting at the head. We both sprang in,and away we dashed down the London Road. A fewcountry carts were stirring, bearing in vegetables tothe metropolis, but the lines of villas on either sideand away we dashed down the London Road. A fewcountry carts were stirring, bearing in vegetables tothe metropolis, but the lines of villas on either sidewere as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream.“It has been in some points a singular case,” saidHolmes, ﬂicking the horse on into a gallop. “I confessthat I have been as blind as a mole, but it is better tolearn wisdom late than never to learn it at all.”In town the earliest risers were just beginning tolook sleepily from their windows as we drove through76TheMan with the Twisted Lipthe streets of the Surrey side. Passing down the Wa-terloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river, anddashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to theright and found ourselves in Bow Street. SherlockHolmes was well known to the force, and the twoconstables at the door saluted him. One of them heldthe horse’s head while the other led us in.“Who is on duty?” asked Holmes.“Inspector Bradstreet, sir.”“Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?” A tall, stout ofﬁ-cial had come down the stone-ﬂagged passage, in apeaked cap and frogged jacket. “I wish to have a quietword with you, Bradstreet.” “Certainly, Mr. Holmes.Step into my room here.” It was a small, ofﬁce-likeroom, with a huge ledger upon the table, and a tele-phone projecting from the wall. The inspector satdown at his desk.“What can I do for you, Mr. Holmes?”“I called about that beggarman, Boone—the onewho was charged with being concerned in the disap-pearance of Mr. Neville St. Clair, of Lee.”“Yes. He was brought up and remanded for fur-ther inquiries.”“So I heard. You have him here?”“In the cells.”“Is he quiet?”“Oh, he gives no trouble. But he is a dirtyscoundrel.”“Dirty?”“Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash hishands, and his face is as black as a tinker’s. Well,when once his case has been settled, he will have aregular prison bath; and I think, if you saw him, youwould agree with me that he needed it.”“I should like to see him very much.”“Would you? That is easily done. Come this way.You can leave your bag.”“No, I think that I’ll take it.”“Very good. Come this way, if you please.” Heled us down a passage, opened a barred door, passeddown a winding stair, and brought us to a white-washed corridor with a line of doors on each side.“The third on the right is his,” said the inspector.“Here it is!” He quietly shot back a panel in the upperpart of the door and glanced through.“He is asleep,” said he. “You can see him verywell.”We both put our eyes to the grating. The pris-oner lay with his face towards us, in a very deepsleep, breathing slowly and heavily. He was a middle-sized man, coarsely clad as became his calling, witha coloured shirt protruding through the rent in histattered coat. He was, as the inspector had said, ex-tremely dirty, but the grime which covered his facecould not conceal its repulsive ugliness. A broadwheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye tochin, and by its contraction had turned up one sideof the upper lip, so that three teeth were exposed in aperpetual snarl. A shock of very bright red hair grewlow over his eyes and forehead.“He’s a beauty, isn’t he?” said the inspector.“He certainly needs a wash,” remarked Holmes.“I had an idea that he might, and I took the liberty ofbringing the tools with me.” He opened the Gladstonebag as he spoke, and took out, to my astonishment, avery large bath-sponge.“He! he! You are a funny one,” chuckled theinspector.“Now, if you will have the great goodness to openthat door very quietly, we will soon make him cut amuch more respectable ﬁgure.”“Well, I don’t know why not,” said the inspector.“He doesn’t look a credit to the Bow Street cells, doeshe?” He slipped his key into the lock, and we allvery quietly entered the cell. The sleeper half turned,and then settled down once more into a deep slum-ber. Holmes stooped to the water-jug, moistened hissponge, and then rubbed it twice vigorously acrossand down the prisoner’s face.“Let me introduce you,” he shouted, “to Mr.Neville St. Clair, of Lee, in the county of Kent.”Never in my life have I seen such a sight. Theman’s face peeled off under the sponge like the barkfrom a tree. Gone was the coarse brown tint! Gone,too, was the horrid scar which had seamed it across,and the twisted lip which had given the repulsivesneer to the face! A twitch brought away the tan-gled red hair, and there, sitting up in his bed, wasand the twisted lip which had given the repulsivesneer to the face! A twitch brought away the tan-gled red hair, and there, sitting up in his bed, wasa pale, sad-faced, reﬁned-looking man, black-hairedand smooth-skinned, rubbing his eyes and staringabout him with sleepy bewilderment. Then suddenlyrealising the exposure, he broke into a scream andthrew himself down with his face to the pillow.“Great heavens!” cried the inspector, “it is, indeed,the missing man. I know him from the photograph.”The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a manwho abandons himself to his destiny. “Be it so,” saidhe. “And pray what am I charged with?”77TheMan with the Twisted Lip“With making away with Mr. Neville St.—Oh,come, you can’t be charged with that unless theymake a case of attempted suicide of it,” said the in-spector with a grin. “Well, I have been twenty-sevenyears in the force, but this really takes the cake.”“If I am Mr. Neville St. Clair, then it is obviousthat no crime has been committed, and that, therefore,I am illegally detained.”“No crime, but a very great error has been com-mitted,” said Holmes. “You would have done betterto have trusted your wife.”“It was not the wife; it was the children,” groanedthe prisoner. “God help me, I would not have themashamed of their father. My God! What an exposure!What can I do?”Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on thecouch and patted him kindly on the shoulder.“If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matterup,” said he, “of course you can hardly avoid pub-licity. On the other hand, if you convince the policeauthorities that there is no possible case against you,I do not know that there is any reason that the detailsshould ﬁnd their way into the papers. Inspector Brad-street would, I am sure, make notes upon anythingwhich you might tell us and submit it to the properauthorities. The case would then never go into courtat all.”“God bless you!” cried the prisoner passionately.“I would have endured imprisonment, ay, even exe-cution, rather than have left my miserable secret as afamily blot to my children.“You are the ﬁrst who have ever heard my story.My father was a schoolmaster in Chesterﬁeld, whereI received an excellent education. I travelled in myyouth, took to the stage, and ﬁnally became a reporteron an evening paper in London. One day my edi-tor wished to have a series of articles upon beggingin the metropolis, and I volunteered to supply them.There was the point from which all my adventuresstarted. It was only by trying begging as an amateurthat I could get the facts upon which to base my arti-cles. When an actor I had, of course, learned all thesecrets of making up, and had been famous in thegreen-room for my skill. I took advantage now of myattainments. I painted my face, and to make myself aspitiable as possible I made a good scar and ﬁxed oneside of my lip in a twist by the aid of a small slip ofﬂesh-coloured plaster. Then with a red head of hair,and an appropriate dress, I took my station in thebusiness part of the city, ostensibly as a match-sellerbut really as a beggar. For seven hours I plied mytrade, and when I returned home in the evening Ifound to my surprise that I had received no less than26s.4d.“I wrote my articles and thought little more ofthe matter until, some time later, I backed a bill for afriend and had a writ served upon me for £25. I wasat my wit’s end where to get the money, but a suddenidea came to me. I begged a fortnight’s grace fromthe creditor, asked for a holiday from my employers,and spent the time in begging in the City under mydisguise. In ten days I had the money and had paidthe debt.“Well, you can imagine how hard it was to settledown to arduous work at £2a week when I knew thatI could earn as much in a day by smearing my facewith a little paint, laying my cap on the ground, andsitting still. It was a long ﬁght between my pride andthe money, but the dollars won at last, and I threw upreporting and sat day after day in the corner whichI had ﬁrst chosen, inspiring pity by my ghastly faceand ﬁlling my pockets with coppers. Only one manknew my secret. He was the keeper of a low denin which I used to lodge in Swandam Lane, where Icould every morning emerge as a squalid beggar andin the evenings transform myself into a well-dressedman about town. This fellow, a Lascar, was well paidby me for his rooms, so that I knew that my secretwas safe in his possession.“Well, very soon I found that I was saving con-siderable sums of money. I do not mean that anybeggar in the streets of London could earn £700 awas safe in his possession.“Well, very soon I found that I was saving con-siderable sums of money. I do not mean that anybeggar in the streets of London could earn £700 ayear—which is less than my average takings—but Ihad exceptional advantages in my power of makingup, and also in a facility of repartee, which improvedby practice and made me quite a recognised characterin the City. All day a stream of pennies, varied bysilver, poured in upon me, and it was a very bad dayin which I failed to take £2.“As I grew richer I grew more ambitious, took ahouse in the country, and eventually married, withoutanyone having a suspicion as to my real occupation.My dear wife knew that I had business in the City.She little knew what.“Last Monday I had ﬁnished for the day and wasdressing in my room above the opium den when Ilooked out of my window and saw, to my horror andastonishment, that my wife was standing in the street,with her eyes ﬁxed full upon me. I gave a cry ofsurprise, threw up my arms to cover my face, and,rushing to my conﬁdant, the Lascar, entreated himto prevent anyone from coming up to me. I heard78TheMan with the Twisted Lipher voice downstairs, but I knew that she could notascend. Swiftly I threw off my clothes, pulled onthose of a beggar, and put on my pigments and wig.Even a wife’s eyes could not pierce so complete adisguise. But then it occurred to me that there mightbe a search in the room, and that the clothes mightbetray me. I threw open the window, reopening bymy violence a small cut which I had inﬂicted uponmyself in the bedroom that morning. Then I seizedmy coat, which was weighted by the coppers which Ihad just transferred to it from the leather bag in whichI carried my takings. I hurled it out of the window,and it disappeared into the Thames. The other clotheswould have followed, but at that moment there wasa rush of constables up the stair, and a few minutesafter I found, rather, I confess, to my relief, that in-stead of being identiﬁed as Mr. Neville St. Clair, I wasarrested as his murderer.“I do not know that there is anything else for meto explain. I was determined to preserve my disguiseas long as possible, and hence my preference for adirty face. Knowing that my wife would be terriblyanxious, I slipped off my ring and conﬁded it to theLascar at a moment when no constable was watchingme, together with a hurried scrawl, telling her thatshe had no cause to fear.”“That note only reached her yesterday,” saidHolmes.“Good God! What a week she must have spent!”“The police have watched this Lascar,” said In-spector Bradstreet, “and I can quite understand thathe might ﬁnd it difﬁcult to post a letter unobserved.Probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his,who forgot all about it for some days.”“That was it,” said Holmes, nodding approvingly;“I have no doubt of it. But have you never been prose-cuted for begging?”“Many times; but what was a ﬁne to me?”“It must stop here, however,” said Bradstreet. “Ifthe police are to hush this thing up, there must be nomore of Hugh Boone.”“I have sworn it by the most solemn oaths whicha man can take.”“In that case I think that it is probable that no fur-ther steps may be taken. But if you are found again,then all must come out. I am sure, Mr. Holmes, thatwe are very much indebted to you for having clearedthe matter up. I wish I knew how you reach yourresults.”“I reached this one,” said my friend, “by sittingupon ﬁve pillows and consuming an ounce of shag.I think, Watson, that if we drive to Baker Street weshall just be in time for breakfast.”79The Adventure of the Blue CarbuncleTheAdventure of the Blue CarbuncleIhad called upon my friend SherlockHolmes upon the second morning afterChristmas, with the intention of wishinghim the compliments of the season. He waslounging upon the sofa in a purple dressing-gown,a pipe-rack within his reach upon the right, and apile of crumpled morning papers, evidently newlystudied, near at hand. Beside the couch was a woodenchair, and on the angle of the back hung a very seedyand disreputable hard-felt hat, much the worse forwear, and cracked in several places. A lens and aforceps lying upon the seat of the chair suggestedthat the hat had been suspended in this manner forthe purpose of examination.“You are engaged,” said I; “perhaps I interruptyou.”“Not at all. I am glad to have a friend with whomI can discuss my results. The matter is a perfectlytrivial one”—he jerked his thumb in the direction ofthe old hat—“but there are points in connection withit which are not entirely devoid of interest and evenof instruction.”I seated myself in his armchair and warmed myhands before his crackling ﬁre, for a sharp frost hadset in, and the windows were thick with the ice crys-tals. “I suppose,” I remarked, “that, homely as itlooks, this thing has some deadly story linked on toit—that it is the clue which will guide you in the so-lution of some mystery and the punishment of somecrime.”“No, no. No crime,” said Sherlock Holmes, laugh-ing. “Only one of those whimsical little incidentswhich will happen when you have four million hu-man beings all jostling each other within the space ofa few square miles. Amid the action and reaction ofso dense a swarm of humanity, every possible combi-nation of events may be expected to take place, andmany a little problem will be presented which maybe striking and bizarre without being criminal. Wehave already had experience of such.”“So much so,” I remarked, “that of the last sixcases which I have added to my notes, three havebeen entirely free of any legal crime.”“Precisely. You allude to my attempt to recoverthe Irene Adler papers, to the singular case of MissMary Sutherland, and to the adventure of the manwith the twisted lip. Well, I have no doubt that thissmall matter will fall into the same innocent category.You know Peterson, the commissionaire?”“Yes.”“It is to him that this trophy belongs.”“It is his hat.”“No, no, he found it. Its owner is unknown. I begthat you will look upon it not as a battered billycockbut as an intellectual problem. And, ﬁrst, as to howit came here. It arrived upon Christmas morning, incompany with a good fat goose, which is, I have nodoubt, roasting at this moment in front of Peterson’sﬁre. The facts are these: about four o’clock on Christ-mas morning, Peterson, who, as you know, is a veryhonest fellow, was returning from some small jolli-ﬁcation and was making his way homeward downTottenham Court Road. In front of him he saw, in thegaslight, a tallish man, walking with a slight stagger,and carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder.As he reached the corner of Goodge Street, a rowbroke out between this stranger and a little knot ofroughs. One of the latter knocked off the man’s hat,on which he raised his stick to defend himself and,swinging it over his head, smashed the shop win-dow behind him. Peterson had rushed forward toprotect the stranger from his assailants; but the man,shocked at having broken the window, and seeing anofﬁcial-looking person in uniform rushing towardshim, dropped his goose, took to his heels, and van-ished amid the labyrinth of small streets which lie atthe back of Tottenham Court Road. The roughs hadalso ﬂed at the appearance of Peterson, so that he wasleft in possession of the ﬁeld of battle, and also of thespoils of victory in the shape of this battered hat anda most unimpeachable Christmas goose.”“Which surely he restored to their owner?”“My dear fellow, there lies the problem. It is truespoils of victory in the shape of this battered hat anda most unimpeachable Christmas goose.”“Which surely he restored to their owner?”“My dear fellow, there lies the problem. It is truethat ‘For Mrs. Henry Baker’ was printed upon a smallcard which was tied to the bird’s left leg, and it is alsotrue that the initials ‘H. B.’ are legible upon the liningof this hat, but as there are some thousands of Bakers,and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city ofours, it is not easy to restore lost property to any oneof them.”“What, then, did Peterson do?”“He brought round both hat and goose to me onChristmas morning, knowing that even the smallestproblems are of interest to me. The goose we retaineduntil this morning, when there were signs that, inspite of the slight frost, it would be well that it shouldbe eaten without unnecessary delay. Its ﬁnder hascarried it off, therefore, to fulﬁl the ultimate destinyof a goose, while I continue to retain the hat of theunknown gentleman who lost his Christmas dinner.”“Did he not advertise?”“No.”83TheAdventure of the Blue Carbuncle“Then, what clue could you have as to his iden-tity?”“Only as much as we can deduce.”“From his hat?”“Precisely.”“But you are joking. What can you gather fromthis old battered felt?”“Here is my lens. You know my methods. Whatcan you gather yourself as to the individuality of theman who has worn this article?”I took the tattered object in my hands and turnedit over rather ruefully. It was a very ordinary blackhat of the usual round shape, hard and much theworse for wear. The lining had been of red silk, butwas a good deal discoloured. There was no maker’sname; but, as Holmes had remarked, the initials “H.B.” were scrawled upon one side. It was pierced inthe brim for a hat-securer, but the elastic was miss-ing. For the rest, it was cracked, exceedingly dusty,and spotted in several places, although there seemedto have been some attempt to hide the discolouredpatches by smearing them with ink.“I can see nothing,” said I, handing it back to myfriend.“On the contrary, Watson, you can see everything.You fail, however, to reason from what you see. Youare too timid in drawing your inferences.”“Then, pray tell me what it is that you can inferfrom this hat?”He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiarintrospective fashion which was characteristic of him.“It is perhaps less suggestive than it might have been,”he remarked, “and yet there are a few inferenceswhich are very distinct, and a few others which rep-resent at least a strong balance of probability. Thatthe man was highly intellectual is of course obviousupon the face of it, and also that he was fairly well-to-do within the last three years, although he has nowfallen upon evil days. He had foresight, but has lessnow than formerly, pointing to a moral retrogression,which, when taken with the decline of his fortunes,seems to indicate some evil inﬂuence, probably drink,at work upon him. This may account also for theobvious fact that his wife has ceased to love him.”“My dear Holmes!”“He has, however, retained some degree of self-respect,” he continued, disregarding my remon-strance. “He is a man who leads a sedentary life,goes out little, is out of training entirely, is middle-aged, has grizzled hair which he has had cut withinthe last few days, and which he anoints with lime-cream. These are the more patent facts which are tobe deduced from his hat. Also, by the way, that it isextremely improbable that he has gas laid on in hishouse.”“You are certainly joking, Holmes.”“Not in the least. Is it possible that even now,when I give you these results, you are unable to seehow they are attained?”“I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I mustconfess that I am unable to follow you. For example,how did you deduce that this man was intellectual?”For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head.It came right over the forehead and settled upon thebridge of his nose. “It is a question of cubic capac-ity,” said he; “a man with so large a brain must havesomething in it.”“The decline of his fortunes, then?”“This hat is three years old. These ﬂat brims curledat the edge came in then. It is a hat of the very bestquality. Look at the band of ribbed silk and the ex-cellent lining. If this man could afford to buy soexpensive a hat three years ago, and has had no hatsince, then he has assuredly gone down in the world.”“Well, that is clear enough, certainly. But howabout the foresight and the moral retrogression?”Sherlock Holmes laughed. “Here is the foresight,”said he putting his ﬁnger upon the little disc and loopof the hat-securer. “They are never sold upon hats. Ifthis man ordered one, it is a sign of a certain amountof foresight, since he went out of his way to take thisprecaution against the wind. But since we see that hehas broken the elastic and has not troubled to replaceit, it is obvious that he has less foresight now thanformerly, which is a distinct proof of a weakeninghas broken the elastic and has not troubled to replaceit, it is obvious that he has less foresight now thanformerly, which is a distinct proof of a weakeningnature. On the other hand, he has endeavoured toconceal some of these stains upon the felt by daubingthem with ink, which is a sign that he has not entirelylost his self-respect.”“Your reasoning is certainly plausible.”“The further points, that he is middle-aged, thathis hair is grizzled, that it has been recently cut, andthat he uses lime-cream, are all to be gathered from aclose examination of the lower part of the lining. Thelens discloses a large number of hair-ends, clean cutby the scissors of the barber. They all appear to beadhesive, and there is a distinct odour of lime-cream.This dust, you will observe, is not the gritty, grey dustof the street but the ﬂuffy brown dust of the house,showing that it has been hung up indoors most of thetime, while the marks of moisture upon the inside are84TheAdventure of the Blue Carbuncleproof positive that the wearer perspired very freely,and could therefore, hardly be in the best of training.”“But his wife—you said that she had ceased tolove him.”“This hat has not been brushed for weeks. When Isee you, my dear Watson, with a week’s accumulationof dust upon your hat, and when your wife allowsyou to go out in such a state, I shall fear that youalso have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife’saffection.”“But he might be a bachelor.”“Nay, he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering to his wife. Remember the card upon thebird’s leg.”“You have an answer to everything. But how onearth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in hishouse?”“One tallow stain, or even two, might come bychance; but when I see no less than ﬁve, I think thatthere can be little doubt that the individual mustbe brought into frequent contact with burning tal-low—walks upstairs at night probably with his hat inone hand and a guttering candle in the other. Any-how, he never got tallow-stains from a gas-jet. Areyou satisﬁed?”“Well, it is very ingenious,” said I, laughing; “butsince, as you said just now, there has been no crimecommitted, and no harm done save the loss of a goose,all this seems to be rather a waste of energy.”Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply,when the door ﬂew open, and Peterson, the com-missionaire, rushed into the apartment with ﬂushedcheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with as-tonishment.“The goose, Mr. Holmes! The goose, sir!” hegasped.“Eh? What of it, then? Has it returned to life andﬂapped off through the kitchen window?” Holmestwisted himself round upon the sofa to get a fairerview of the man’s excited face.“See here, sir! See what my wife found in its crop!”He held out his hand and displayed upon the centreof the palm a brilliantly scintillating blue stone, rathersmaller than a bean in size, but of such purity andradiance that it twinkled like an electric point in thedark hollow of his hand.Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle. “By Jove,Peterson!” said he, “this is treasure trove indeed. Isuppose you know what you have got?”“A diamond, sir? A precious stone. It cuts intoglass as though it were putty.”“It’s more than a precious stone. It is thepreciousstone.”“Not the Countess of Morcar’s blue carbuncle!” Iejaculated.“Precisely so. I ought to know its size and shape,seeing that I have read the advertisement about it inThe Times every day lately. It is absolutely unique,and its value can only be conjectured, but the rewardoffered of £1000 is certainly not within a twentiethpart of the market price.”“A thousand pounds! Great Lord of mercy!”The commissionaire plumped down into a chair andstared from one to the other of us.“That is the reward, and I have reason to knowthat there are sentimental considerations in the back-ground which would induce the Countess to part withhalf her fortune if she could but recover the gem.”“It was lost, if I remember aright, at the HotelCosmopolitan,” I remarked.“Precisely so, on December 22nd, just ﬁve daysago. John Horner, a plumber, was accused of hav-ing abstracted it from the lady’s jewel-case. The ev-idence against him was so strong that the case hasbeen referred to the Assizes. I have some accountof the matter here, I believe.” He rummaged amidhis newspapers, glancing over the dates, until at lasthe smoothed one out, doubled it over, and read thefollowing paragraph:“Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery. JohnHorner, 26, plumber, was brought up uponthe charge of having upon the 22nd inst. ab-stracted from the jewel-case of the Countess ofMorcar the valuable gem known as the bluecarbuncle. James Ryder, upper-attendant atthe hotel, gave his evidence to the effect thathe had shown Horner up to the dressing-roomof the Countess of Morcar upon the day of therobbery in order that he might solder the sec-ond bar of the grate, which was loose. Hehe had shown Horner up to the dressing-roomof the Countess of Morcar upon the day of therobbery in order that he might solder the sec-ond bar of the grate, which was loose. Hehad remained with Horner some little time,but had ﬁnally been called away. On return-ing, he found that Horner had disappeared,that the bureau had been forced open, andthat the small morocco casket in which, as itafterwards transpired, the Countess was ac-customed to keep her jewel, was lying emptyupon the dressing-table. Ryder instantly gavethe alarm, and Horner was arrested the same85TheAdventure of the Blue Carbuncleevening; but the stone could not be found ei-ther upon his person or in his rooms. Cather-ine Cusack, maid to the Countess, deposed tohaving heard Ryder’s cry of dismay on dis-covering the robbery, and to having rushedinto the room, where she found matters as de-scribed by the last witness. Inspector Brad-street, B division, gave evidence as to the ar-rest of Horner, who struggled frantically, andprotested his innocence in the strongest terms.Evidence of a previous conviction for robberyhaving been given against the prisoner, themagistrate refused to deal summarily with theoffence, but referred it to the Assizes. Horner,who had shown signs of intense emotion dur-ing the proceedings, fainted away at the con-clusion and was carried out of court.”“Hum! So much for the police-court,” said Holmesthoughtfully, tossing aside the paper. “The questionfor us now to solve is the sequence of events leadingfrom a riﬂed jewel-case at one end to the crop of agoose in Tottenham Court Road at the other. Yousee, Watson, our little deductions have suddenly as-sumed a much more important and less innocentaspect. Here is the stone; the stone came from thegoose, and the goose came from Mr. Henry Baker, thegentleman with the bad hat and all the other char-acteristics with which I have bored you. So now wemust set ourselves very seriously to ﬁnding this gen-tleman and ascertaining what part he has played inthis little mystery. To do this, we must try the sim-plest means ﬁrst, and these lie undoubtedly in anadvertisement in all the evening papers. If this fail, Ishall have recourse to other methods.”“What will you say?”“Give me a pencil and that slip of paper. Now,then: ‘Found at the corner of Goodge Street, a gooseand a black felt hat. Mr. Henry Baker can have thesame by applying at 6.30this evening at 221b , BakerStreet.’ That is clear and concise.”“Very. But will he see it?”“Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers,since, to a poor man, the loss was a heavy one. Hewas clearly so scared by his mischance in breakingthe window and by the approach of Peterson that hethought of nothing but ﬂight, but since then he musthave bitterly regretted the impulse which caused himto drop his bird. Then, again, the introduction ofhis name will cause him to see it, for everyone whoknows him will direct his attention to it. Here youare, Peterson, run down to the advertising agency andhave this put in the evening papers.”“In which, sir?”“Oh, in the Globe, Star, Pall Mall, St. James’s,Evening News, Standard, Echo, and any others that oc-cur to you.”“Very well, sir. And this stone?”“Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone. Thank you. And,I say, Peterson, just buy a goose on your way backand leave it here with me, for we must have one togive to this gentleman in place of the one which yourfamily is now devouring.”When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes tookup the stone and held it against the light. “It’s abonny thing,” said he. “Just see how it glints andsparkles. Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime.Every good stone is. They are the devil’s pet baits.In the larger and older jewels every facet may standfor a bloody deed. This stone is not yet twenty yearsold. It was found in the banks of the Amoy Riverin southern China and is remarkable in having everycharacteristic of the carbuncle, save that it is blue inshade instead of ruby red. In spite of its youth, ithas already a sinister history. There have been twomurders, a vitriol-throwing, a suicide, and several rob-beries brought about for the sake of this forty-grainweight of crystallised charcoal. Who would think thatso pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallowsand the prison? I’ll lock it up in my strong box nowand drop a line to the Countess to say that we haveit.”“Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?”“I cannot tell.”“Well, then, do you imagine that this other one,and drop a line to the Countess to say that we haveit.”“Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?”“I cannot tell.”“Well, then, do you imagine that this other one,Henry Baker, had anything to do with the matter?”“It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Bakeris an absolutely innocent man, who had no idea thatthe bird which he was carrying was of considerablymore value than if it were made of solid gold. That,however, I shall determine by a very simple test if wehave an answer to our advertisement.”“And you can do nothing until then?”“Nothing.”“In that case I shall continue my professionalround. But I shall come back in the evening at thehour you have mentioned, for I should like to see thesolution of so tangled a business.”“Very glad to see you. I dine at seven. There isa woodcock, I believe. By the way, in view of recentoccurrences, perhaps I ought to ask Mrs. Hudson toexamine its crop.”86TheAdventure of the Blue CarbuncleI had been delayed at a case, and it was a littleafter half-past six when I found myself in Baker Streetonce more. As I approached the house I saw a tallman in a Scotch bonnet with a coat which was but-toned up to his chin waiting outside in the brightsemicircle which was thrown from the fanlight. Justas I arrived the door was opened, and we were shownup together to Holmes’ room.“Mr. Henry Baker, I believe,” said he, rising fromhis armchair and greeting his visitor with the easyair of geniality which he could so readily assume.“Pray take this chair by the ﬁre, Mr. Baker. It is acold night, and I observe that your circulation is moreadapted for summer than for winter. Ah, Watson, youhave just come at the right time. Is that your hat, Mr.Baker?”“Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat.”He was a large man with rounded shoulders, amassive head, and a broad, intelligent face, slopingdown to a pointed beard of grizzled brown. A touchof red in nose and cheeks, with a slight tremor ofhis extended hand, recalled Holmes’ surmise as tohis habits. His rusty black frock-coat was buttonedright up in front, with the collar turned up, and hislank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a signof cuff or shirt. He spoke in a slow staccato fashion,choosing his words with care, and gave the impres-sion generally of a man of learning and letters whohad had ill-usage at the hands of fortune.“We have retained these things for some days,”said Holmes, “because we expected to see an adver-tisement from you giving your address. I am at a lossto know now why you did not advertise.”Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh.“Shillings have not been so plentiful with me as theyonce were,” he remarked. “I had no doubt that thegang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off bothmy hat and the bird. I did not care to spend moremoney in a hopeless attempt at recovering them.”“Very naturally. By the way, about the bird, wewere compelled to eat it.”“To eat it!” Our visitor half rose from his chair inhis excitement.“Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone hadwe not done so. But I presume that this other gooseupon the sideboard, which is about the same weightand perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose equallywell?”“Oh, certainly, certainly,” answered Mr. Baker witha sigh of relief.“Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop,and so on of your own bird, so if you wish—”The man burst into a hearty laugh. “They mightbe useful to me as relics of my adventure,” said he,“but beyond that I can hardly see what use the disjectamembra of my late acquaintance are going to be tome. No, sir, I think that, with your permission, I willconﬁne my attentions to the excellent bird which Iperceive upon the sideboard.”Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at mewith a slight shrug of his shoulders.“There is your hat, then, and there your bird,” saidhe. “By the way, would it bore you to tell me whereyou got the other one from? I am somewhat of a fowlfancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown goose.”“Certainly, sir,” said Baker, who had risen andtucked his newly gained property under his arm.“There are a few of us who frequent the Alpha Inn,near the Museum—we are to be found in the Mu-seum itself during the day, you understand. Thisyear our good host, Windigate by name, instituted agoose club, by which, on consideration of some fewpence every week, we were each to receive a bird atChristmas. My pence were duly paid, and the restis familiar to you. I am much indebted to you, sir,for a Scotch bonnet is ﬁtted neither to my years normy gravity.” With a comical pomposity of manner hebowed solemnly to both of us and strode off upon hisway.“So much for Mr. Henry Baker,” said Holmeswhen he had closed the door behind him. “It is quitecertain that he knows nothing whatever about thematter. Are you hungry, Watson?”“Not particularly.”“So much for Mr. Henry Baker,” said Holmeswhen he had closed the door behind him. “It is quitecertain that he knows nothing whatever about thematter. Are you hungry, Watson?”“Not particularly.”“Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into asupper and follow up this clue while it is still hot.”“By all means.”It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters andwrapped cravats about our throats. Outside, the starswere shining coldly in a cloudless sky, and the breathof the passers-by blew out into smoke like so manypistol shots. Our footfalls rang out crisply and loudlyas we swung through the doctors’ quarter, WimpoleStreet, Harley Street, and so through Wigmore Streetinto Oxford Street. In a quarter of an hour we werein Bloomsbury at the Alpha Inn, which is a smallpublic-house at the corner of one of the streets whichruns down into Holborn. Holmes pushed open thedoor of the private bar and ordered two glasses ofbeer from the ruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord.“Your beer should be excellent if it is as good asyour geese,” said he.87TheAdventure of the Blue Carbuncle“My geese!” The man seemed surprised.“Yes. I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr.Henry Baker, who was a member of your goose club.”“Ah! yes, I see. But you see, sir, them’s not ourgeese.”“Indeed! Whose, then?”“Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman inCovent Garden.”“Indeed? I know some of them. Which was it?”“Breckinridge is his name.”“Ah! I don’t know him. Well, here’s your goodhealth landlord, and prosperity to your house. Good-night.”“Now for Mr. Breckinridge,” he continued, but-toning up his coat as we came out into the frosty air.“Remember, Watson that though we have so homelya thing as a goose at one end of this chain, we haveat the other a man who will certainly get seven years’penal servitude unless we can establish his innocence.It is possible that our inquiry may but conﬁrm hisguilt; but, in any case, we have a line of investigationwhich has been missed by the police, and which a sin-gular chance has placed in our hands. Let us followit out to the bitter end. Faces to the south, then, andquick march!”We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street,and so through a zigzag of slums to Covent Gar-den Market. One of the largest stalls bore the nameof Breckinridge upon it, and the proprietor a horsey-looking man, with a sharp face and trim side-whiskerswas helping a boy to put up the shutters.“Good-evening. It’s a cold night,” said Holmes.The salesman nodded and shot a questioningglance at my companion.“Sold out of geese, I see,” continued Holmes,pointing at the bare slabs of marble.“Let you have ﬁve hundred to-morrow morning.”“That’s no good.”“Well, there are some on the stall with the gas-ﬂare.”“Ah, but I was recommended to you.”“Who by?”“The landlord of the Alpha.”“Oh, yes; I sent him a couple of dozen.”“Fine birds they were, too. Now where did youget them from?”To my surprise the question provoked a burst ofanger from the salesman.“Now, then, mister,” said he, with his head cockedand his arms akimbo, “what are you driving at? Let’shave it straight, now.”“It is straight enough. I should like to know whosold you the geese which you supplied to the Alpha.”“Well then, I shan’t tell you. So now!”“Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don’tknow why you should be so warm over such a triﬂe.”“Warm! You’d be as warm, maybe, if you wereas pestered as I am. When I pay good money for agood article there should be an end of the business;but it’s ‘Where are the geese?’ and ‘Who did yousell the geese to?’ and ‘What will you take for thegeese?’ One would think they were the only geese inthe world, to hear the fuss that is made over them.”“Well, I have no connection with any other peoplewho have been making inquiries,” said Holmes care-lessly. “If you won’t tell us the bet is off, that is all.But I’m always ready to back my opinion on a matterof fowls, and I have a ﬁver on it that the bird I ate iscountry bred.”“Well, then, you’ve lost your ﬁver, for it’s townbred,” snapped the salesman.“It’s nothing of the kind.”“I say it is.”“I don’t believe it.”“D’you think you know more about fowls than I,who have handled them ever since I was a nipper? Itell you, all those birds that went to the Alpha weretown bred.”“You’ll never persuade me to believe that.”“Will you bet, then?”“It’s merely taking your money, for I know that Iam right. But I’ll have a sovereign on with you, justto teach you not to be obstinate.”The salesman chuckled grimly. “Bring me thebooks, Bill,” said he.The small boy brought round a small thin vol-ume and a great greasy-backed one, laying them outtogether beneath the hanging lamp.“Now then, Mr. Cocksure,” said the salesman, “Ithought that I was out of geese, but before I ﬁnishyou’ll ﬁnd that there is still one left in my shop. Yousee this little book?”“Well?”“That’s the list of the folk from whom I buy. D’yousee? Well, then, here on this page are the country folk,you’ll ﬁnd that there is still one left in my shop. Yousee this little book?”“Well?”“That’s the list of the folk from whom I buy. D’yousee? Well, then, here on this page are the country folk,and the numbers after their names are where theiraccounts are in the big ledger. Now, then! You see88TheAdventure of the Blue Carbunclethis other page in red ink? Well, that is a list of mytown suppliers. Now, look at that third name. Justread it out to me.”“Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road— 249,” readHolmes.“Quite so. Now turn that up in the ledger.”Holmes turned to the page indicated. “Here youare, ‘Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road, egg and poul-try supplier.’ ”“Now, then, what’s the last entry?”“ ‘December 22nd. Twenty-four geese at 7s.6d.’ ”“Quite so. There you are. And underneath?”“ ‘Sold to Mr. Windigate of the Alpha, at 12s.’ ”“What have you to say now?”Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined. Hedrew a sovereign from his pocket and threw it downupon the slab, turning away with the air of a manwhose disgust is too deep for words. A few yardsoff he stopped under a lamp-post and laughed in thehearty, noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him.“When you see a man with whiskers of that cutand the ‘Pink ’un’ protruding out of his pocket, youcan always draw him by a bet,” said he. “I daresaythat if I had put £100down in front of him, that manwould not have given me such complete informationas was drawn from him by the idea that he was doingme on a wager. Well, Watson, we are, I fancy, nearingthe end of our quest, and the only point which re-mains to be determined is whether we should go on tothis Mrs. Oakshott to-night, or whether we should re-serve it for to-morrow. It is clear from what that surlyfellow said that there are others besides ourselveswho are anxious about the matter, and I should—”His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loudhubbub which broke out from the stall which we hadjust left. Turning round we saw a little rat-faced fel-low standing in the centre of the circle of yellow lightwhich was thrown by the swinging lamp, while Breck-inridge, the salesman, framed in the door of his stall,was shaking his ﬁsts ﬁercely at the cringing ﬁgure.“I’ve had enough of you and your geese,” heshouted. “I wish you were all at the devil together. Ifyou come pestering me any more with your silly talkI’ll set the dog at you. You bring Mrs. Oakshott hereand I’ll answer her, but what have you to do with it?Did I buy the geese off you?”“No; but one of them was mine all the same,”whined the little man.“Well, then, ask Mrs. Oakshott for it.”“She told me to ask you.”“Well, you can ask the King of Proosia, for allI care. I’ve had enough of it. Get out of this!” Herushed ﬁercely forward, and the inquirer ﬂitted awayinto the darkness.“Ha! this may save us a visit to Brixton Road,”whispered Holmes. “Come with me, and we will seewhat is to be made of this fellow.” Striding throughthe scattered knots of people who lounged round theﬂaring stalls, my companion speedily overtook thelittle man and touched him upon the shoulder. Hesprang round, and I could see in the gas-light thatevery vestige of colour had been driven from his face.“Who are you, then? What do you want?” heasked in a quavering voice.“You will excuse me,” said Holmes blandly, “but Icould not help overhearing the questions which youput to the salesman just now. I think that I could beof assistance to you.”“You? Who are you? How could you know any-thing of the matter?”“My name is Sherlock Holmes. It is my businessto know what other people don’t know.”“But you can know nothing of this?”“Excuse me, I know everything of it. You are en-deavouring to trace some geese which were sold byMrs. Oakshott, of Brixton Road, to a salesman namedBreckinridge, by him in turn to Mr. Windigate, of theAlpha, and by him to his club, of which Mr. HenryBaker is a member.”“Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longedto meet,” cried the little fellow with outstretchedhands and quivering ﬁngers. “I can hardly explain toyou how interested I am in this matter.”Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which waspassing. “In that case we had better discuss it in a cosyroom rather than in this wind-swept market-place,”you how interested I am in this matter.”Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which waspassing. “In that case we had better discuss it in a cosyroom rather than in this wind-swept market-place,”said he. “But pray tell me, before we go farther, whoit is that I have the pleasure of assisting.”The man hesitated for an instant. “My name isJohn Robinson,” he answered with a sidelong glance.“No, no; the real name,” said Holmes sweetly. “Itis always awkward doing business with an alias.”A ﬂush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger.“Well then,” said he, “my real name is James Ryder.”“Precisely so. Head attendant at the Hotel Cos-mopolitan. Pray step into the cab, and I shall soon beable to tell you everything which you would wish toknow.”The little man stood glancing from one to the otherof us with half-frightened, half-hopeful eyes, as one89TheAdventure of the Blue Carbunclewho is not sure whether he is on the verge of a wind-fall or of a catastrophe. Then he stepped into thecab, and in half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker Street. Nothing had been said duringour drive, but the high, thin breathing of our newcompanion, and the claspings and unclaspings of hishands, spoke of the nervous tension within him.“Here we are!” said Holmes cheerily as we ﬁledinto the room. “The ﬁre looks very seasonable in thisweather. You look cold, Mr. Ryder. Pray take thebasket-chair. I will just put on my slippers before wesettle this little matter of yours. Now, then! You wantto know what became of those geese?”“Yes, sir.”“Or rather, I fancy, of that goose. It was one bird,I imagine in which you were interested—white, witha black bar across the tail.”Ryder quivered with emotion. “Oh, sir,” he cried,“can you tell me where it went to?”“It came here.”“Here?”“Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved. Idon’t wonder that you should take an interest in it. Itlaid an egg after it was dead—the bonniest, brightestlittle blue egg that ever was seen. I have it here in mymuseum.”Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched themantelpiece with his right hand. Holmes unlockedhis strong-box and held up the blue carbuncle, whichshone out like a star, with a cold, brilliant, many-pointed radiance. Ryder stood glaring with a drawnface, uncertain whether to claim or to disown it.“The game’s up, Ryder,” said Holmes quietly.“Hold up, man, or you’ll be into the ﬁre! Give him anarm back into his chair, Watson. He’s not got bloodenough to go in for felony with impunity. Give hima dash of brandy. So! Now he looks a little morehuman. What a shrimp it is, to be sure!”For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen,but the brandy brought a tinge of colour into hischeeks, and he sat staring with frightened eyes at hisaccuser.“I have almost every link in my hands, and all theproofs which I could possibly need, so there is littlewhich you need tell me. Still, that little may as wellbe cleared up to make the case complete. You hadheard, Ryder, of this blue stone of the Countess ofMorcar’s?”“It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it,” saidhe in a crackling voice.“I see—her ladyship’s waiting-maid. Well, thetemptation of sudden wealth so easily acquired wastoo much for you, as it has been for better men be-fore you; but you were not very scrupulous in themeans you used. It seems to me, Ryder, that thereis the making of a very pretty villain in you. Youknew that this man Horner, the plumber, had beenconcerned in some such matter before, and that suspi-cion would rest the more readily upon him. What didyou do, then? You made some small job in my lady’sroom—you and your confederate Cusack—and youmanaged that he should be the man sent for. Then,when he had left, you riﬂed the jewel-case, raised thealarm, and had this unfortunate man arrested. Youthen—”Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rugand clutched at my companion’s knees. “For God’ssake, have mercy!” he shrieked. “Think of my father!Of my mother! It would break their hearts. I neverwent wrong before! I never will again. I swear it. I’llswear it on a Bible. Oh, don’t bring it into court! ForChrist’s sake, don’t!”“Get back into your chair!” said Holmes sternly.“It is very well to cringe and crawl now, but youthought little enough of this poor Horner in the dockfor a crime of which he knew nothing.”“I will ﬂy, Mr. Holmes. I will leave the country, sir.Then the charge against him will break down.”“Hum! We will talk about that. And now let ushear a true account of the next act. How came thestone into the goose, and how came the goose intothe open market? Tell us the truth, for there lies youronly hope of safety.”Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips.“I will tell you it just as it happened, sir,” said he.“When Horner had been arrested, it seemed to meonly hope of safety.”Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips.“I will tell you it just as it happened, sir,” said he.“When Horner had been arrested, it seemed to methat it would be best for me to get away with thestone at once, for I did not know at what moment thepolice might not take it into their heads to search meand my room. There was no place about the hotelwhere it would be safe. I went out, as if on some com-mission, and I made for my sister’s house. She hadmarried a man named Oakshott, and lived in BrixtonRoad, where she fattened fowls for the market. Allthe way there every man I met seemed to me to be apoliceman or a detective; and, for all that it was a coldnight, the sweat was pouring down my face before Icame to the Brixton Road. My sister asked me whatwas the matter, and why I was so pale; but I told herthat I had been upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel.Then I went into the back yard and smoked a pipeand wondered what it would be best to do.90TheAdventure of the Blue Carbuncle“I had a friend once called Maudsley, who wentto the bad, and has just been serving his time in Pen-tonville. One day he had met me, and fell into talkabout the ways of thieves, and how they could getrid of what they stole. I knew that he would be trueto me, for I knew one or two things about him; so Imade up my mind to go right on to Kilburn, wherehe lived, and take him into my conﬁdence. He wouldshow me how to turn the stone into money. But howto get to him in safety? I thought of the agonies I hadgone through in coming from the hotel. I might atany moment be seized and searched, and there wouldbe the stone in my waistcoat pocket. I was leaningagainst the wall at the time and looking at the geesewhich were waddling about round my feet, and sud-denly an idea came into my head which showed mehow I could beat the best detective that ever lived.“My sister had told me some weeks before thatI might have the pick of her geese for a Christmaspresent, and I knew that she was always as good asher word. I would take my goose now, and in it Iwould carry my stone to Kilburn. There was a littleshed in the yard, and behind this I drove one of thebirds—a ﬁne big one, white, with a barred tail. Icaught it, and prying its bill open, I thrust the stonedown its throat as far as my ﬁnger could reach. Thebird gave a gulp, and I felt the stone pass along its gul-let and down into its crop. But the creature ﬂappedand struggled, and out came my sister to know whatwas the matter. As I turned to speak to her the brutebroke loose and ﬂuttered off among the others.“ ‘Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?’says she.“ ‘Well,’ said I, ‘you said you’d give me one forChristmas, and I was feeling which was the fattest.’“ ‘Oh,’ says she, ‘we’ve set yours aside foryou—Jem’s bird, we call it. It’s the big white oneover yonder. There’s twenty-six of them, which makesone for you, and one for us, and two dozen for themarket.’“ ‘Thank you, Maggie,’ says I; ‘but if it is all thesame to you, I’d rather have that one I was handlingjust now.’“ ‘The other is a good three pound heavier,’ saidshe, ‘and we fattened it expressly for you.’“ ‘Never mind. I’ll have the other, and I’ll take itnow,’ said I.“ ‘Oh, just as you like,’ said she, a little huffed.‘Which is it you want, then?’“ ‘That white one with the barred tail, right in themiddle of the ﬂock.’“ ‘Oh, very well. Kill it and take it with you.’“Well, I did what she said, Mr. Holmes, and I car-ried the bird all the way to Kilburn. I told my palwhat I had done, for he was a man that it was easy totell a thing like that to. He laughed until he choked,and we got a knife and opened the goose. My heartturned to water, for there was no sign of the stone,and I knew that some terrible mistake had occurred.I left the bird, rushed back to my sister’s, and hurriedinto the back yard. There was not a bird to be seenthere.“ ‘Where are they all, Maggie?’ I cried.“ ‘Gone to the dealer’s, Jem.’“ ‘Which dealer’s?’“ ‘Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.’“ ‘But was there another with a barred tail?’ Iasked, ‘the same as the one I chose?’“ ‘Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, andI could never tell them apart.’“Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off ashard as my feet would carry me to this man Breck-inridge; but he had sold the lot at once, and not oneword would he tell me as to where they had gone.You heard him yourselves to-night. Well, he has al-ways answered me like that. My sister thinks thatI am going mad. Sometimes I think that I am my-self. And now—and now I am myself a branded thief,without ever having touched the wealth for which Isold my character. God help me! God help me!” Heburst into convulsive sobbing, with his face buried inhis hands.There was a long silence, broken only by his heavybreathing and by the measured tapping of SherlockHolmes’ ﬁnger-tips upon the edge of the table. Thenhis hands.There was a long silence, broken only by his heavybreathing and by the measured tapping of SherlockHolmes’ ﬁnger-tips upon the edge of the table. Thenmy friend rose and threw open the door.“Get out!” said he.“What, sir! Oh, Heaven bless you!”“No more words. Get out!”And no more words were needed. There was arush, a clatter upon the stairs, the bang of a door, andthe crisp rattle of running footfalls from the street.“After all, Watson,” said Holmes, reaching up hishand for his clay pipe, “I am not retained by the po-lice to supply their deﬁciencies. If Horner were indanger it would be another thing; but this fellow willnot appear against him, and the case must collapse. Isuppose that I am commuting a felony, but it is justpossible that I am saving a soul. This fellow will notgo wrong again; he is too terribly frightened. Sendhim to jail now, and you make him a jail-bird for life.91TheAdventure of the Blue CarbuncleBesides, it is the season of forgiveness. Chance hasput in our way a most singular and whimsical prob-lem, and its solution is its own reward. If you willhave the goodness to touch the bell, Doctor, we willbegin another investigation, in which, also a bird willbe the chief feature.”92The Adventure of the Speckled BandTheAdventure of the Speckled BandOn glancing over my notes of the seventyodd cases in which I have during the lasteight years studied the methods of myfriend Sherlock Holmes, I ﬁnd many tragic,some comic, a large number merely strange, but nonecommonplace; for, working as he did rather for thelove of his art than for the acquirement of wealth, herefused to associate himself with any investigationwhich did not tend towards the unusual, and even thefantastic. Of all these varied cases, however, I cannotrecall any which presented more singular featuresthan that which was associated with the well-knownSurrey family of the Roylotts of Stoke Moran. Theevents in question occurred in the early days of my as-sociation with Holmes, when we were sharing roomsas bachelors in Baker Street. It is possible that I mighthave placed them upon record before, but a promiseof secrecy was made at the time, from which I haveonly been freed during the last month by the untimelydeath of the lady to whom the pledge was given. Itis perhaps as well that the facts should now cometo light, for I have reasons to know that there arewidespread rumours as to the death of Dr. GrimesbyRoylott which tend to make the matter even moreterrible than the truth.It was early in April in the year ’ 83that I wokeone morning to ﬁnd Sherlock Holmes standing, fullydressed, by the side of my bed. He was a late riser, asa rule, and as the clock on the mantelpiece showedme that it was only a quarter-past seven, I blinkedup at him in some surprise, and perhaps just a littleresentment, for I was myself regular in my habits.“Very sorry to knock you up, Watson,” said he,“but it’s the common lot this morning. Mrs. Hudsonhas been knocked up, she retorted upon me, and I onyou.”“What is it, then—a ﬁre?”“No; a client. It seems that a young lady has ar-rived in a considerable state of excitement, who insistsupon seeing me. She is waiting now in the sitting-room. Now, when young ladies wander about themetropolis at this hour of the morning, and knocksleepy people up out of their beds, I presume that it issomething very pressing which they have to commu-nicate. Should it prove to be an interesting case, youwould, I am sure, wish to follow it from the outset. Ithought, at any rate, that I should call you and giveyou the chance.”“My dear fellow, I would not miss it for anything.”I had no keener pleasure than in following Holmesin his professional investigations, and in admiringthe rapid deductions, as swift as intuitions, and yetalways founded on a logical basis with which he un-ravelled the problems which were submitted to him.I rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in afew minutes to accompany my friend down to thesitting-room. A lady dressed in black and heavilyveiled, who had been sitting in the window, rose aswe entered.“Good-morning, madam,” said Holmes cheerily.“My name is Sherlock Holmes. This is my intimatefriend and associate, Dr. Watson, before whom youcan speak as freely as before myself. Ha! I am gladto see that Mrs. Hudson has had the good sense tolight the ﬁre. Pray draw up to it, and I shall orderyou a cup of hot coffee, for I observe that you areshivering.”“It is not cold which makes me shiver,” said thewoman in a low voice, changing her seat as requested.“What, then?”“It is fear, Mr. Holmes. It is terror.” She raised herveil as she spoke, and we could see that she was in-deed in a pitiable state of agitation, her face all drawnand grey, with restless frightened eyes, like those ofsome hunted animal. Her features and ﬁgure werethose of a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot withpremature grey, and her expression was weary andhaggard. Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one ofhis quick, all-comprehensive glances.“You must not fear,” said he soothingly, bendingforward and patting her forearm. “We shall soon setmatters right, I have no doubt. You have come in bytrain this morning, I see.”“You must not fear,” said he soothingly, bendingforward and patting her forearm. “We shall soon setmatters right, I have no doubt. You have come in bytrain this morning, I see.”“You know me, then?”“No, but I observe the second half of a return ticketin the palm of your left glove. You must have startedearly, and yet you had a good drive in a dog-cart,along heavy roads, before you reached the station.”The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewil-derment at my companion.“There is no mystery, my dear madam,” said he,smiling. “The left arm of your jacket is spattered withmud in no less than seven places. The marks are per-fectly fresh. There is no vehicle save a dog-cart whichthrows up mud in that way, and then only when yousit on the left-hand side of the driver.”“Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectlycorrect,” said she. “I started from home before six,reached Leatherhead at twenty past, and came in bythe ﬁrst train to Waterloo. Sir, I can stand this strainno longer; I shall go mad if it continues. I have no oneto turn to—none, save only one, who cares for me,and he, poor fellow, can be of little aid. I have heard95TheAdventure of the Speckled Bandof you, Mr. Holmes; I have heard of you from Mrs.Farintosh, whom you helped in the hour of her soreneed. It was from her that I had your address. Oh, sir,do you not think that you could help me, too, and atleast throw a little light through the dense darknesswhich surrounds me? At present it is out of my powerto reward you for your services, but in a month orsix weeks I shall be married, with the control of myown income, and then at least you shall not ﬁnd meungrateful.”Holmes turned to his desk and, unlocking it, drewout a small case-book, which he consulted.“Farintosh,” said he. “Ah yes, I recall the case;it was concerned with an opal tiara. I think it wasbefore your time, Watson. I can only say, madam,that I shall be happy to devote the same care to yourcase as I did to that of your friend. As to reward, myprofession is its own reward; but you are at liberty todefray whatever expenses I may be put to, at the timewhich suits you best. And now I beg that you will laybefore us everything that may help us in forming anopinion upon the matter.”“Alas!” replied our visitor, “the very horror of mysituation lies in the fact that my fears are so vague,and my suspicions depend so entirely upon smallpoints, which might seem trivial to another, that evenhe to whom of all others I have a right to look forhelp and advice looks upon all that I tell him about itas the fancies of a nervous woman. He does not sayso, but I can read it from his soothing answers andaverted eyes. But I have heard, Mr. Holmes, that youcan see deeply into the manifold wickedness of thehuman heart. You may advise me how to walk amidthe dangers which encompass me.”“I am all attention, madam.”“My name is Helen Stoner, and I am living withmy stepfather, who is the last survivor of one of theoldest Saxon families in England, the Roylotts of StokeMoran, on the western border of Surrey.”Holmes nodded his head. “The name is familiarto me,” said he.“The family was at one time among the richestin England, and the estates extended over the bor-ders into Berkshire in the north, and Hampshire inthe west. In the last century, however, four successiveheirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition, andthe family ruin was eventually completed by a gam-bler in the days of the Regency. Nothing was left savea few acres of ground, and the two-hundred-year-oldhouse, which is itself crushed under a heavy mort-gage. The last squire dragged out his existence there,living the horrible life of an aristocratic pauper; buthis only son, my stepfather, seeing that he must adapthimself to the new conditions, obtained an advancefrom a relative, which enabled him to take a medicaldegree and went out to Calcutta, where, by his profes-sional skill and his force of character, he establisheda large practice. In a ﬁt of anger, however, caused bysome robberies which had been perpetrated in thehouse, he beat his native butler to death and narrowlyescaped a capital sentence. As it was, he suffered along term of imprisonment and afterwards returnedto England a morose and disappointed man.“When Dr. Roylott was in India he married mymother, Mrs. Stoner, the young widow of Major-General Stoner, of the Bengal Artillery. My sisterJulia and I were twins, and we were only two yearsold at the time of my mother’s re-marriage. She hada considerable sum of money—not less than £1000 ayear—and this she bequeathed to Dr. Roylott entirelywhile we resided with him, with a provision that acertain annual sum should be allowed to each of us inthe event of our marriage. Shortly after our return toEngland my mother died—she was killed eight yearsago in a railway accident near Crewe. Dr. Roylott thenabandoned his attempts to establish himself in prac-tice in London and took us to live with him in the oldancestral house at Stoke Moran. The money whichmy mother had left was enough for all our wants, andtice in London and took us to live with him in the oldancestral house at Stoke Moran. The money whichmy mother had left was enough for all our wants, andthere seemed to be no obstacle to our happiness.“But a terrible change came over our stepfatherabout this time. Instead of making friends and ex-changing visits with our neighbours, who had at ﬁrstbeen overjoyed to see a Roylott of Stoke Moran backin the old family seat, he shut himself up in his houseand seldom came out save to indulge in ferociousquarrels with whoever might cross his path. Violenceof temper approaching to mania has been hereditaryin the men of the family, and in my stepfather’s caseit had, I believe, been intensiﬁed by his long residencein the tropics. A series of disgraceful brawls tookplace, two of which ended in the police-court, until atlast he became the terror of the village, and the folkswould ﬂy at his approach, for he is a man of immensestrength, and absolutely uncontrollable in his anger.“Last week he hurled the local blacksmith over aparapet into a stream, and it was only by paying overall the money which I could gather together that Iwas able to avert another public exposure. He hadno friends at all save the wandering gypsies, and hewould give these vagabonds leave to encamp uponthe few acres of bramble-covered land which repre-sent the family estate, and would accept in return the96TheAdventure of the Speckled Bandhospitality of their tents, wandering away with themsometimes for weeks on end. He has a passion alsofor Indian animals, which are sent over to him by acorrespondent, and he has at this moment a cheetahand a baboon, which wander freely over his groundsand are feared by the villagers almost as much astheir master.“You can imagine from what I say that my poorsister Julia and I had no great pleasure in our lives.No servant would stay with us, and for a long timewe did all the work of the house. She was but thirtyat the time of her death, and yet her hair had alreadybegun to whiten, even as mine has.”“Your sister is dead, then?”“She died just two years ago, and it is of her deaththat I wish to speak to you. You can understand that,living the life which I have described, we were littlelikely to see anyone of our own age and position. Wehad, however, an aunt, my mother’s maiden sister,Miss Honoria Westphail, who lives near Harrow, andwe were occasionally allowed to pay short visits at thislady’s house. Julia went there at Christmas two yearsago, and met there a half-pay major of marines, towhom she became engaged. My stepfather learned ofthe engagement when my sister returned and offeredno objection to the marriage; but within a fortnightof the day which had been ﬁxed for the wedding, theterrible event occurred which has deprived me of myonly companion.”Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in hischair with his eyes closed and his head sunk in acushion, but he half opened his lids now and glancedacross at his visitor.“Pray be precise as to details,” said he.“It is easy for me to be so, for every event of thatdreadful time is seared into my memory. The manor-house is, as I have already said, very old, and only onewing is now inhabited. The bedrooms in this wingare on the ground ﬂoor, the sitting-rooms being in thecentral block of the buildings. Of these bedrooms theﬁrst is Dr. Roylott’s, the second my sister’s, and thethird my own. There is no communication betweenthem, but they all open out into the same corridor.Do I make myself plain?”“Perfectly so.”“The windows of the three rooms open out uponthe lawn. That fatal night Dr. Roylott had gone to hisroom early, though we knew that he had not retiredto rest, for my sister was troubled by the smell ofthe strong Indian cigars which it was his custom tosmoke. She left her room, therefore, and came intomine, where she sat for some time, chatting abouther approaching wedding. At eleven o’clock she roseto leave me, but she paused at the door and lookedback.“ ‘Tell me, Helen,’ said she, ‘have you ever heardanyone whistle in the dead of the night?’“ ‘Never,’ said I.“ ‘I suppose that you could not possibly whistle,yourself, in your sleep?’“ ‘Certainly not. But why?’“ ‘Because during the last few nights I have always,about three in the morning, heard a low, clear whistle.I am a light sleeper, and it has awakened me. I cannottell where it came from—perhaps from the next room,perhaps from the lawn. I thought that I would justask you whether you had heard it.’“ ‘No, I have not. It must be those wretched gipsiesin the plantation.’“ ‘Very likely. And yet if it were on the lawn, Iwonder that you did not hear it also.’“ ‘Ah, but I sleep more heavily than you.’“ ‘Well, it is of no great consequence, at any rate.’She smiled back at me, closed my door, and a fewmoments later I heard her key turn in the lock.”“Indeed,” said Holmes. “Was it your custom al-ways to lock yourselves in at night?”“Always.”“And why?”“I think that I mentioned to you that the doctorkept a cheetah and a baboon. We had no feeling ofsecurity unless our doors were locked.”“Quite so. Pray proceed with your statement.”“I could not sleep that night. A vague feeling ofimpending misfortune impressed me. My sister andI, you will recollect, were twins, and you know howsubtle are the links which bind two souls which areimpending misfortune impressed me. My sister andI, you will recollect, were twins, and you know howsubtle are the links which bind two souls which areso closely allied. It was a wild night. The wind washowling outside, and the rain was beating and splash-ing against the windows. Suddenly, amid all thehubbub of the gale, there burst forth the wild screamof a terriﬁed woman. I knew that it was my sister’svoice. I sprang from my bed, wrapped a shawl roundme, and rushed into the corridor. As I opened mydoor I seemed to hear a low whistle, such as my sisterdescribed, and a few moments later a clanging sound,as if a mass of metal had fallen. As I ran down thepassage, my sister’s door was unlocked, and revolvedslowly upon its hinges. I stared at it horror-stricken,not knowing what was about to issue from it. By thelight of the corridor-lamp I saw my sister appear at97TheAdventure of the Speckled Bandthe opening, her face blanched with terror, her handsgroping for help, her whole ﬁgure swaying to and frolike that of a drunkard. I ran to her and threw myarms round her, but at that moment her knees seemedto give way and she fell to the ground. She writhed asone who is in terrible pain, and her limbs were dread-fully convulsed. At ﬁrst I thought that she had notrecognised me, but as I bent over her she suddenlyshrieked out in a voice which I shall never forget, ‘Oh,my God! Helen! It was the band! The speckled band!’There was something else which she would fain havesaid, and she stabbed with her ﬁnger into the air inthe direction of the doctor’s room, but a fresh con-vulsion seized her and choked her words. I rushedout, calling loudly for my stepfather, and I met himhastening from his room in his dressing-gown. Whenhe reached my sister’s side she was unconscious, andthough he poured brandy down her throat and sentfor medical aid from the village, all efforts were invain, for she slowly sank and died without havingrecovered her consciousness. Such was the dreadfulend of my beloved sister.”“One moment,” said Holmes, “are you sure aboutthis whistle and metallic sound? Could you swear toit?”“That was what the county coroner asked me atthe inquiry. It is my strong impression that I heard it,and yet, among the crash of the gale and the creakingof an old house, I may possibly have been deceived.”“Was your sister dressed?”“No, she was in her night-dress. In her right handwas found the charred stump of a match, and in herleft a match-box.”“Showing that she had struck a light and lookedabout her when the alarm took place. That is impor-tant. And what conclusions did the coroner cometo?”“He investigated the case with great care, for Dr.Roylott’s conduct had long been notorious in thecounty, but he was unable to ﬁnd any satisfactorycause of death. My evidence showed that the doorhad been fastened upon the inner side, and the win-dows were blocked by old-fashioned shutters withbroad iron bars, which were secured every night. Thewalls were carefully sounded, and were shown to bequite solid all round, and the ﬂooring was also thor-oughly examined, with the same result. The chimneyis wide, but is barred up by four large staples. It iscertain, therefore, that my sister was quite alone whenshe met her end. Besides, there were no marks of anyviolence upon her.”“How about poison?”“The doctors examined her for it, but without suc-cess.”“What do you think that this unfortunate ladydied of, then?”“It is my belief that she died of pure fear and ner-vous shock, though what it was that frightened her Icannot imagine.”“Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?”“Yes, there are nearly always some there.”“Ah, and what did you gather from this allusionto a band—a speckled band?”“Sometimes I have thought that it was merely thewild talk of delirium, sometimes that it may have re-ferred to some band of people, perhaps to these verygipsies in the plantation. I do not know whether thespotted handkerchiefs which so many of them wearover their heads might have suggested the strangeadjective which she used.”Holmes shook his head like a man who is far frombeing satisﬁed.“These are very deep waters,” said he; “pray goon with your narrative.”“Two years have passed since then, and my lifehas been until lately lonelier than ever. A month ago,however, a dear friend, whom I have known for manyyears, has done me the honour to ask my hand in mar-riage. His name is Armitage—Percy Armitage—thesecond son of Mr. Armitage, of Crane Water, nearReading. My stepfather has offered no opposition tothe match, and we are to be married in the course ofthe spring. Two days ago some repairs were startedin the west wing of the building, and my bedroomwall has been pierced, so that I have had to move intothe chamber in which my sister died, and to sleepin the west wing of the building, and my bedroomwall has been pierced, so that I have had to move intothe chamber in which my sister died, and to sleepin the very bed in which she slept. Imagine, then,my thrill of terror when last night, as I lay awake,thinking over her terrible fate, I suddenly heard in thesilence of the night the low whistle which had beenthe herald of her own death. I sprang up and lit thelamp, but nothing was to be seen in the room. I wastoo shaken to go to bed again, however, so I dressed,and as soon as it was daylight I slipped down, gota dog-cart at the Crown Inn, which is opposite, anddrove to Leatherhead, from whence I have come onthis morning with the one object of seeing you andasking your advice.”“You have done wisely,” said my friend. “But haveyou told me all?”“Yes, all.”98TheAdventure of the Speckled Band“Miss Roylott, you have not. You are screeningyour stepfather.”“Why, what do you mean?”For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of blacklace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visi-tor’s knee. Five little livid spots, the marks of fourﬁngers and a thumb, were printed upon the whitewrist.“You have been cruelly used,” said Holmes.The lady coloured deeply and covered over herinjured wrist. “He is a hard man,” she said, “andperhaps he hardly knows his own strength.”There was a long silence, during which Holmesleaned his chin upon his hands and stared into thecrackling ﬁre.“This is a very deep business,” he said at last.“There are a thousand details which I should desireto know before I decide upon our course of action.Yet we have not a moment to lose. If we were to cometo Stoke Moran to-day, would it be possible for us tosee over these rooms without the knowledge of yourstepfather?”“As it happens, he spoke of coming into townto-day upon some most important business. It isprobable that he will be away all day, and that therewould be nothing to disturb you. We have a house-keeper now, but she is old and foolish, and I couldeasily get her out of the way.”“Excellent. You are not averse to this trip, Wat-son?”“By no means.”“Then we shall both come. What are you going todo yourself?”“I have one or two things which I would wish todo now that I am in town. But I shall return by thetwelve o’clock train, so as to be there in time for yourcoming.”“And you may expect us early in the afternoon. Ihave myself some small business matters to attend to.Will you not wait and breakfast?”“No, I must go. My heart is lightened alreadysince I have conﬁded my trouble to you. I shalllook forward to seeing you again this afternoon.” Shedropped her thick black veil over her face and glidedfrom the room.“And what do you think of it all, Watson?” askedSherlock Holmes, leaning back in his chair.“It seems to me to be a most dark and sinisterbusiness.”“Dark enough and sinister enough.”“Yet if the lady is correct in saying that the ﬂooringand walls are sound, and that the door, window, andchimney are impassable, then her sister must havebeen undoubtedly alone when she met her mysteriousend.”“What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles,and what of the very peculiar words of the dyingwoman?”“I cannot think.”“When you combine the ideas of whistles at night,the presence of a band of gipsies who are on intimateterms with this old doctor, the fact that we have everyreason to believe that the doctor has an interest inpreventing his stepdaughter’s marriage, the dying al-lusion to a band, and, ﬁnally, the fact that Miss HelenStoner heard a metallic clang, which might have beencaused by one of those metal bars that secured theshutters falling back into its place, I think that there isgood ground to think that the mystery may be clearedalong those lines.”“But what, then, did the gipsies do?”“I cannot imagine.”“I see many objections to any such theory.”“And so do I. It is precisely for that reason thatwe are going to Stoke Moran this day. I want to seewhether the objections are fatal, or if they may beexplained away. But what in the name of the devil!”The ejaculation had been drawn from my com-panion by the fact that our door had been suddenlydashed open, and that a huge man had framed him-self in the aperture. His costume was a peculiar mix-ture of the professional and of the agricultural, havinga black top-hat, a long frock-coat, and a pair of highgaiters, with a hunting-crop swinging in his hand. Sotall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross barof the doorway, and his breadth seemed to span itacross from side to side. A large face, seared with athousand wrinkles, burned yellow with the sun, andmarked with every evil passion, was turned from oneto the other of us, while his deep-set, bile-shot eyes,thousand wrinkles, burned yellow with the sun, andmarked with every evil passion, was turned from oneto the other of us, while his deep-set, bile-shot eyes,and his high, thin, ﬂeshless nose, gave him somewhatthe resemblance to a ﬁerce old bird of prey.“Which of you is Holmes?” asked this apparition.“My name, sir; but you have the advantage of me,”said my companion quietly.“I am Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke Moran.”“Indeed, Doctor,” said Holmes blandly. “Pray takea seat.”99TheAdventure of the Speckled Band“I will do nothing of the kind. My stepdaughterhas been here. I have traced her. What has she beensaying to you?”“It is a little cold for the time of the year,” saidHolmes.“What has she been saying to you?” screamed theold man furiously.“But I have heard that the crocuses promise well,”continued my companion imperturbably.“Ha! You put me off, do you?” said our new vis-itor, taking a step forward and shaking his hunting-crop. “I know you, you scoundrel! I have heard ofyou before. You are Holmes, the meddler.”My friend smiled.“Holmes, the busybody!”His smile broadened.“Holmes, the Scotland Yard Jack-in-ofﬁce!”Holmes chuckled heartily. “Your conversation ismost entertaining,” said he. “When you go out closethe door, for there is a decided draught.”“I will go when I have said my say. Don’t you dareto meddle with my affairs. I know that Miss Stonerhas been here. I traced her! I am a dangerous manto fall foul of! See here.” He stepped swiftly forward,seized the poker, and bent it into a curve with hishuge brown hands.“See that you keep yourself out of my grip,” hesnarled, and hurling the twisted poker into the ﬁre-place he strode out of the room.“He seems a very amiable person,” said Holmes,laughing. “I am not quite so bulky, but if he hadremained I might have shown him that my grip wasnot much more feeble than his own.” As he spoke hepicked up the steel poker and, with a sudden effort,straightened it out again.“Fancy his having the insolence to confound mewith the ofﬁcial detective force! This incident giveszest to our investigation, however, and I only trustthat our little friend will not suffer from her impru-dence in allowing this brute to trace her. And now,Watson, we shall order breakfast, and afterwards Ishall walk down to Doctors’ Commons, where I hopeto get some data which may help us in this matter.”It was nearly one o’clock when Sherlock Holmesreturned from his excursion. He held in his handa sheet of blue paper, scrawled over with notes andﬁgures.“I have seen the will of the deceased wife,” said he.“To determine its exact meaning I have been obligedto work out the present prices of the investments withwhich it is concerned. The total income, which atthe time of the wife’s death was little short of £1100 ,is now, through the fall in agricultural prices, notmore than £750. Each daughter can claim an incomeof£250, in case of marriage. It is evident, therefore,that if both girls had married, this beauty would havehad a mere pittance, while even one of them wouldcripple him to a very serious extent. My morning’swork has not been wasted, since it has proved thathe has the very strongest motives for standing in theway of anything of the sort. And now, Watson, this istoo serious for dawdling, especially as the old man isaware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs;so if you are ready, we shall call a cab and drive toWaterloo. I should be very much obliged if you wouldslip your revolver into your pocket. An Eley’s No. 2isan excellent argument with gentlemen who can twiststeel pokers into knots. That and a tooth-brush are, Ithink, all that we need.”At Waterloo we were fortunate in catching a trainfor Leatherhead, where we hired a trap at the stationinn and drove for four or ﬁve miles through the lovelySurrey lanes. It was a perfect day, with a bright sunand a few ﬂeecy clouds in the heavens. The treesand wayside hedges were just throwing out their ﬁrstgreen shoots, and the air was full of the pleasant smellof the moist earth. To me at least there was a strangecontrast between the sweet promise of the spring andthis sinister quest upon which we were engaged. Mycompanion sat in the front of the trap, his arms folded,his hat pulled down over his eyes, and his chin sunkupon his breast, buried in the deepest thought. Sud-denly, however, he started, tapped me on the shoulder,and pointed over the meadows.his hat pulled down over his eyes, and his chin sunkupon his breast, buried in the deepest thought. Sud-denly, however, he started, tapped me on the shoulder,and pointed over the meadows.“Look there!” said he.A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentleslope, thickening into a grove at the highest point.From amid the branches there jutted out the greygables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion.“Stoke Moran?” said he.“Yes, sir, that be the house of Dr. Grimesby Roy-lott,” remarked the driver.“There is some building going on there,” saidHolmes; “that is where we are going.”“There’s the village,” said the driver, pointing to acluster of roofs some distance to the left; “but if youwant to get to the house, you’ll ﬁnd it shorter to getover this stile, and so by the foot-path over the ﬁelds.There it is, where the lady is walking.”100TheAdventure of the Speckled Band“And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner,” observedHolmes, shading his eyes. “Yes, I think we had betterdo as you suggest.”We got off, paid our fare, and the trap rattled backon its way to Leatherhead.“I thought it as well,” said Holmes as we climbedthe stile, “that this fellow should think we had comehere as architects, or on some deﬁnite business. Itmay stop his gossip. Good-afternoon, Miss Stoner.You see that we have been as good as our word.”Our client of the morning had hurried forward tomeet us with a face which spoke her joy. “I have beenwaiting so eagerly for you,” she cried, shaking handswith us warmly. “All has turned out splendidly. Dr.Roylott has gone to town, and it is unlikely that hewill be back before evening.”“We have had the pleasure of making the doctor’sacquaintance,” said Holmes, and in a few words hesketched out what had occurred. Miss Stoner turnedwhite to the lips as she listened.“Good heavens!” she cried, “he has followed me,then.”“So it appears.”“He is so cunning that I never know when I amsafe from him. What will he say when he returns?”“He must guard himself, for he may ﬁnd that thereis someone more cunning than himself upon his track.You must lock yourself up from him to-night. If heis violent, we shall take you away to your aunt’s atHarrow. Now, we must make the best use of our time,so kindly take us at once to the rooms which we areto examine.”The building was of grey, lichen-blotched stone,with a high central portion and two curving wings,like the claws of a crab, thrown out on each side. Inone of these wings the windows were broken andblocked with wooden boards, while the roof waspartly caved in, a picture of ruin. The central por-tion was in little better repair, but the right-handblock was comparatively modern, and the blinds inthe windows, with the blue smoke curling up fromthe chimneys, showed that this was where the familyresided. Some scaffolding had been erected againstthe end wall, and the stone-work had been brokeninto, but there were no signs of any workmen at themoment of our visit. Holmes walked slowly up anddown the ill-trimmed lawn and examined with deepattention the outsides of the windows.“This, I take it, belongs to the room in which youused to sleep, the centre one to your sister’s, andthe one next to the main building to Dr. Roylott’schamber?”“Exactly so. But I am now sleeping in the middleone.”“Pending the alterations, as I understand. By theway, there does not seem to be any very pressing needfor repairs at that end wall.”“There were none. I believe that it was an excuseto move me from my room.”“Ah! that is suggestive. Now, on the other sideof this narrow wing runs the corridor from whichthese three rooms open. There are windows in it, ofcourse?”“Yes, but very small ones. Too narrow for anyoneto pass through.”“As you both locked your doors at night, yourrooms were unapproachable from that side. Now,would you have the kindness to go into your roomand bar your shutters?”Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a carefulexamination through the open window, endeavouredin every way to force the shutter open, but withoutsuccess. There was no slit through which a knifecould be passed to raise the bar. Then with his lenshe tested the hinges, but they were of solid iron, builtﬁrmly into the massive masonry. “Hum!” said he,scratching his chin in some perplexity, “my theorycertainly presents some difﬁculties. No one couldpass these shutters if they were bolted. Well, we shallsee if the inside throws any light upon the matter.”A small side door led into the whitewashed corri-dor from which the three bedrooms opened. Holmesrefused to examine the third chamber, so we passedat once to the second, that in which Miss Stoner wasnow sleeping, and in which her sister had met withher fate. It was a homely little room, with a low ceil-at once to the second, that in which Miss Stoner wasnow sleeping, and in which her sister had met withher fate. It was a homely little room, with a low ceil-ing and a gaping ﬁreplace, after the fashion of oldcountry-houses. A brown chest of drawers stood inone corner, a narrow white-counterpaned bed in an-other, and a dressing-table on the left-hand side of thewindow. These articles, with two small wicker-workchairs, made up all the furniture in the room save fora square of Wilton carpet in the centre. The boardsround and the panelling of the walls were of brown,worm-eaten oak, so old and discoloured that it mayhave dated from the original building of the house.Holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner and satsilent, while his eyes travelled round and round andup and down, taking in every detail of the apartment.“Where does that bell communicate with?” heasked at last pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung101TheAdventure of the Speckled Banddown beside the bed, the tassel actually lying uponthe pillow.“It goes to the housekeeper’s room.”“It looks newer than the other things?”“Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago.”“Your sister asked for it, I suppose?”“No, I never heard of her using it. We used alwaysto get what we wanted for ourselves.”“Indeed, it seemed unnecessary to put so nice abell-pull there. You will excuse me for a few minuteswhile I satisfy myself as to this ﬂoor.” He threw him-self down upon his face with his lens in his hand andcrawled swiftly backward and forward, examiningminutely the cracks between the boards. Then he didthe same with the wood-work with which the cham-ber was panelled. Finally he walked over to the bedand spent some time in staring at it and in runninghis eye up and down the wall. Finally he took thebell-rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug.“Why, it’s a dummy,” said he.“Won’t it ring?”“No, it is not even attached to a wire. This is veryinteresting. You can see now that it is fastened toa hook just above where the little opening for theventilator is.”“How very absurd! I never noticed that before.”“Very strange!” muttered Holmes, pulling at therope. “There are one or two very singular pointsabout this room. For example, what a fool a buildermust be to open a ventilator into another room, when,with the same trouble, he might have communicatedwith the outside air!”“That is also quite modern,” said the lady.“Done about the same time as the bell-rope?” re-marked Holmes.“Yes, there were several little changes carried outabout that time.”“They seem to have been of a most interestingcharacter—dummy bell-ropes, and ventilators whichdo not ventilate. With your permission, Miss Stoner,we shall now carry our researches into the inner apart-ment.”Dr. Grimesby Roylott’s chamber was larger thanthat of his step-daughter, but was as plainly fur-nished. A camp-bed, a small wooden shelf full ofbooks, mostly of a technical character, an armchairbeside the bed, a plain wooden chair against the wall,a round table, and a large iron safe were the principalthings which met the eye. Holmes walked slowlyround and examined each and all of them with thekeenest interest.“What’s in here?” he asked, tapping the safe.“My stepfather’s business papers.”“Oh! you have seen inside, then?”“Only once, some years ago. I remember that itwas full of papers.”“There isn’t a cat in it, for example?”“No. What a strange idea!”“Well, look at this!” He took up a small saucer ofmilk which stood on the top of it.“No; we don’t keep a cat. But there is a cheetahand a baboon.”“Ah, yes, of course! Well, a cheetah is just a big cat,and yet a saucer of milk does not go very far in satis-fying its wants, I daresay. There is one point whichI should wish to determine.” He squatted down infront of the wooden chair and examined the seat of itwith the greatest attention.“Thank you. That is quite settled,” said he, risingand putting his lens in his pocket. “Hullo! Here issomething interesting!”The object which had caught his eye was a smalldog lash hung on one corner of the bed. The lash,however, was curled upon itself and tied so as to makea loop of whipcord.“What do you make of that, Watson?”“It’s a common enough lash. But I don’t knowwhy it should be tied.”“That is not quite so common, is it? Ah, me! it’s awicked world, and when a clever man turns his brainsto crime it is the worst of all. I think that I have seenenough now, Miss Stoner, and with your permissionwe shall walk out upon the lawn.”I had never seen my friend’s face so grim or hisbrow so dark as it was when we turned from thescene of this investigation. We had walked severaltimes up and down the lawn, neither Miss Stoner normyself liking to break in upon his thoughts before heroused himself from his reverie.“It is very essential, Miss Stoner,” said he, “thattimes up and down the lawn, neither Miss Stoner normyself liking to break in upon his thoughts before heroused himself from his reverie.“It is very essential, Miss Stoner,” said he, “thatyou should absolutely follow my advice in every re-spect.”“I shall most certainly do so.”“The matter is too serious for any hesitation. Yourlife may depend upon your compliance.”“I assure you that I am in your hands.”“In the ﬁrst place, both my friend and I mustspend the night in your room.”102TheAdventure of the Speckled BandBoth Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonish-ment.“Yes, it must be so. Let me explain. I believe thatthat is the village inn over there?”“Yes, that is the Crown.”“Very good. Your windows would be visible fromthere?”“Certainly.”“You must conﬁne yourself to your room, on pre-tence of a headache, when your stepfather comesback. Then when you hear him retire for the night,you must open the shutters of your window, undothe hasp, put your lamp there as a signal to us, andthen withdraw quietly with everything which youare likely to want into the room which you used tooccupy. I have no doubt that, in spite of the repairs,you could manage there for one night.”“Oh, yes, easily.”“The rest you will leave in our hands.”“But what will you do?”“We shall spend the night in your room, and weshall investigate the cause of this noise which hasdisturbed you.”“I believe, Mr. Holmes, that you have alreadymade up your mind,” said Miss Stoner, laying herhand upon my companion’s sleeve.“Perhaps I have.”“Then, for pity’s sake, tell me what was the causeof my sister’s death.”“I should prefer to have clearer proofs before Ispeak.”“You can at least tell me whether my own thoughtis correct, and if she died from some sudden fright.”“No, I do not think so. I think that there wasprobably some more tangible cause. And now, MissStoner, we must leave you for if Dr. Roylott returnedand saw us our journey would be in vain. Good-bye,and be brave, for if you will do what I have told you,you may rest assured that we shall soon drive awaythe dangers that threaten you.”Sherlock Holmes and I had no difﬁculty in engag-ing a bedroom and sitting-room at the Crown Inn.They were on the upper ﬂoor, and from our windowwe could command a view of the avenue gate, andof the inhabited wing of Stoke Moran Manor House.At dusk we saw Dr. Grimesby Roylott drive past, hishuge form looming up beside the little ﬁgure of thelad who drove him. The boy had some slight difﬁ-culty in undoing the heavy iron gates, and we heardthe hoarse roar of the doctor’s voice and saw the furywith which he shook his clinched ﬁsts at him. Thetrap drove on, and a few minutes later we saw a sud-den light spring up among the trees as the lamp waslit in one of the sitting-rooms.“Do you know, Watson,” said Holmes as we sat to-gether in the gathering darkness, “I have really somescruples as to taking you to-night. There is a distinctelement of danger.”“Can I be of assistance?”“Your presence might be invaluable.”“Then I shall certainly come.”“It is very kind of you.”“You speak of danger. You have evidently seenmore in these rooms than was visible to me.”“No, but I fancy that I may have deduced a littlemore. I imagine that you saw all that I did.”“I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope, andwhat purpose that could answer I confess is morethan I can imagine.”“You saw the ventilator, too?”“Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very un-usual thing to have a small opening between tworooms. It was so small that a rat could hardly passthrough.”“I knew that we should ﬁnd a ventilator beforeever we came to Stoke Moran.”“My dear Holmes!”“Oh, yes, I did. You remember in her statementshe said that her sister could smell Dr. Roylott’s cigar.Now, of course that suggested at once that there mustbe a communication between the two rooms. It couldonly be a small one, or it would have been remarkedupon at the coroner’s inquiry. I deduced a ventilator.”“But what harm can there be in that?”“Well, there is at least a curious coincidence ofdates. A ventilator is made, a cord is hung, and a ladywho sleeps in the bed dies. Does not that strike you?”“I cannot as yet see any connection.”“Did you observe anything very peculiar aboutthat bed?”“No.”“It was clamped to the ﬂoor. Did you ever see abed fastened like that before?”“I cannot say that I have.”“The lady could not move her bed. It must alwaysthat bed?”“No.”“It was clamped to the ﬂoor. Did you ever see abed fastened like that before?”“I cannot say that I have.”“The lady could not move her bed. It must alwaysbe in the same relative position to the ventilator andto the rope—or so we may call it, since it was clearlynever meant for a bell-pull.”103TheAdventure of the Speckled Band“Holmes,” I cried, “I seem to see dimly what youare hinting at. We are only just in time to preventsome subtle and horrible crime.”“Subtle enough and horrible enough. When a doc-tor does go wrong he is the ﬁrst of criminals. He hasnerve and he has knowledge. Palmer and Pritchardwere among the heads of their profession. This manstrikes even deeper, but I think, Watson, that we shallbe able to strike deeper still. But we shall have horrorsenough before the night is over; for goodness’ sakelet us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds for a fewhours to something more cheerful.”About nine o’clock the light among the trees wasextinguished, and all was dark in the direction of theManor House. Two hours passed slowly away, andthen, suddenly, just at the stroke of eleven, a singlebright light shone out right in front of us.“That is our signal,” said Holmes, springing to hisfeet; “it comes from the middle window.”As we passed out he exchanged a few words withthe landlord, explaining that we were going on a latevisit to an acquaintance, and that it was possible thatwe might spend the night there. A moment later wewere out on the dark road, a chill wind blowing in ourfaces, and one yellow light twinkling in front of usthrough the gloom to guide us on our sombre errand.There was little difﬁculty in entering the grounds,for unrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall.Making our way among the trees, we reached thelawn, crossed it, and were about to enter through thewindow when out from a clump of laurel bushes theredarted what seemed to be a hideous and distortedchild, who threw itself upon the grass with writhinglimbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into thedarkness.“My God!” I whispered; “did you see it?”Holmes was for the moment as startled as I. Hishand closed like a vice upon my wrist in his agitation.Then he broke into a low laugh and put his lips to myear.“It is a nice household,” he murmured. “That isthe baboon.”I had forgotten the strange pets which the doctoraffected. There was a cheetah, too; perhaps we mightﬁnd it upon our shoulders at any moment. I confessthat I felt easier in my mind when, after followingHolmes’ example and slipping off my shoes, I foundmyself inside the bedroom. My companion noise-lessly closed the shutters, moved the lamp onto thetable, and cast his eyes round the room. All was aswe had seen it in the daytime. Then creeping up tome and making a trumpet of his hand, he whisperedinto my ear again so gently that it was all that I coulddo to distinguish the words:“The least sound would be fatal to our plans.”I nodded to show that I had heard.“We must sit without light. He would see itthrough the ventilator.”I nodded again.“Do not go asleep; your very life may dependupon it. Have your pistol ready in case we shouldneed it. I will sit on the side of the bed, and you inthat chair.”I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner ofthe table.Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and thishe placed upon the bed beside him. By it he laid thebox of matches and the stump of a candle. Then heturned down the lamp, and we were left in darkness.How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil? I couldnot hear a sound, not even the drawing of a breath,and yet I knew that my companion sat open-eyed,within a few feet of me, in the same state of nervoustension in which I was myself. The shutters cut off theleast ray of light, and we waited in absolute darkness.From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird, and once at our very window a long drawncatlike whine, which told us that the cheetah wasindeed at liberty. Far away we could hear the deeptones of the parish clock, which boomed out everyquarter of an hour. How long they seemed, thosequarters! Twelve struck, and one and two and three,and still we sat waiting silently for whatever mightbefall.Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of aquarters! Twelve struck, and one and two and three,and still we sat waiting silently for whatever mightbefall.Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of alight up in the direction of the ventilator, which van-ished immediately, but was succeeded by a strongsmell of burning oil and heated metal. Someone inthe next room had lit a dark-lantern. I heard a gen-tle sound of movement, and then all was silent oncemore, though the smell grew stronger. For half anhour I sat with straining ears. Then suddenly an-other sound became audible—a very gentle, soothingsound, like that of a small jet of steam escaping con-tinually from a kettle. The instant that we heard it,Holmes sprang from the bed, struck a match, andlashed furiously with his cane at the bell-pull.“You see it, Watson?” he yelled. “You see it?”But I saw nothing. At the moment when Holmesstruck the light I heard a low, clear whistle, but thesudden glare ﬂashing into my weary eyes made itimpossible for me to tell what it was at which my104TheAdventure of the Speckled Bandfriend lashed so savagely. I could, however, see thathis face was deadly pale and ﬁlled with horror andloathing. He had ceased to strike and was gazing upat the ventilator when suddenly there broke from thesilence of the night the most horrible cry to which Ihave ever listened. It swelled up louder and louder,a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all mingledin the one dreadful shriek. They say that away downin the village, and even in the distant parsonage, thatcry raised the sleepers from their beds. It struck coldto our hearts, and I stood gazing at Holmes, and heat me, until the last echoes of it had died away intothe silence from which it rose.“What can it mean?” I gasped.“It means that it is all over,” Holmes answered.“And perhaps, after all, it is for the best. Take yourpistol, and we will enter Dr. Roylott’s room.”With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the waydown the corridor. Twice he struck at the chamberdoor without any reply from within. Then he turnedthe handle and entered, I at his heels, with the cockedpistol in my hand.It was a singular sight which met our eyes. Onthe table stood a dark-lantern with the shutter halfopen, throwing a brilliant beam of light upon the ironsafe, the door of which was ajar. Beside this table, onthe wooden chair, sat Dr. Grimesby Roylott clad in along grey dressing-gown, his bare ankles protrudingbeneath, and his feet thrust into red heelless Turk-ish slippers. Across his lap lay the short stock withthe long lash which we had noticed during the day.His chin was cocked upward and his eyes were ﬁxedin a dreadful, rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling.Round his brow he had a peculiar yellow band, withbrownish speckles, which seemed to be bound tightlyround his head. As we entered he made neither soundnor motion.“The band! the speckled band!” whisperedHolmes.I took a step forward. In an instant his strangeheadgear began to move, and there reared itself fromamong his hair the squat diamond-shaped head andpuffed neck of a loathsome serpent.“It is a swamp adder!” cried Holmes; “the dead-liest snake in India. He has died within ten secondsof being bitten. Violence does, in truth, recoil uponthe violent, and the schemer falls into the pit whichhe digs for another. Let us thrust this creature backinto its den, and we can then remove Miss Stoner tosome place of shelter and let the county police knowwhat has happened.”As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly fromthe dead man’s lap, and throwing the noose roundthe reptile’s neck he drew it from its horrid perch and,carrying it at arm’s length, threw it into the iron safe,which he closed upon it.Such are the true facts of the death of Dr. GrimesbyRoylott, of Stoke Moran. It is not necessary that Ishould prolong a narrative which has already run totoo great a length by telling how we broke the sadnews to the terriﬁed girl, how we conveyed her bythe morning train to the care of her good aunt at Har-row, of how the slow process of ofﬁcial inquiry cameto the conclusion that the doctor met his fate whileindiscreetly playing with a dangerous pet. The littlewhich I had yet to learn of the case was told me bySherlock Holmes as we travelled back next day.“I had,” said he, “come to an entirely erroneousconclusion which shows, my dear Watson, how dan-gerous it always is to reason from insufﬁcient data.The presence of the gipsies, and the use of the word‘band,’ which was used by the poor girl, no doubt,to explain the appearance which she had caught ahurried glimpse of by the light of her match, weresufﬁcient to put me upon an entirely wrong scent. Ican only claim the merit that I instantly reconsideredmy position when, however, it became clear to methat whatever danger threatened an occupant of theroom could not come either from the window or thedoor. My attention was speedily drawn, as I havemy position when, however, it became clear to methat whatever danger threatened an occupant of theroom could not come either from the window or thedoor. My attention was speedily drawn, as I havealready remarked to you, to this ventilator, and to thebell-rope which hung down to the bed. The discoverythat this was a dummy, and that the bed was clampedto the ﬂoor, instantly gave rise to the suspicion thatthe rope was there as a bridge for something pass-ing through the hole and coming to the bed. Theidea of a snake instantly occurred to me, and whenI coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor wasfurnished with a supply of creatures from India, Ifelt that I was probably on the right track. The ideaof using a form of poison which could not possiblybe discovered by any chemical test was just such aone as would occur to a clever and ruthless man whohad had an Eastern training. The rapidity with whichsuch a poison would take effect would also, from hispoint of view, be an advantage. It would be a sharp-eyed coroner, indeed, who could distinguish the twolittle dark punctures which would show where thepoison fangs had done their work. Then I thought ofthe whistle. Of course he must recall the snake beforethe morning light revealed it to the victim. He hadtrained it, probably by the use of the milk which wesaw, to return to him when summoned. He would put105TheAdventure of the Speckled Bandit through this ventilator at the hour that he thoughtbest, with the certainty that it would crawl down therope and land on the bed. It might or might not bitethe occupant, perhaps she might escape every nightfor a week, but sooner or later she must fall a victim.“I had come to these conclusions before ever I hadentered his room. An inspection of his chair showedme that he had been in the habit of standing on it,which of course would be necessary in order thathe should reach the ventilator. The sight of the safe,the saucer of milk, and the loop of whipcord wereenough to ﬁnally dispel any doubts which may haveremained. The metallic clang heard by Miss Stonerwas obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closingthe door of his safe upon its terrible occupant. Havingonce made up my mind, you know the steps which Itook in order to put the matter to the proof. I heardthe creature hiss as I have no doubt that you did also,and I instantly lit the light and attacked it.”“With the result of driving it through the ventila-tor.”“And also with the result of causing it to turnupon its master at the other side. Some of the blowsof my cane came home and roused its snakish temper,so that it ﬂew upon the ﬁrst person it saw. In this wayI am no doubt indirectly responsible for Dr. GrimesbyRoylott’s death, and I cannot say that it is likely toweigh very heavily upon my conscience.”106The Adventure of the Engineer’s ThumbTheAdventure of the Engineer ’sThumbOf all the problems which have been submit-ted to my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, forsolution during the years of our intimacy,there were only two which I was the meansof introducing to his notice—that of Mr. Hatherley’sthumb, and that of Colonel Warburton’s madness. Ofthese the latter may have afforded a ﬁner ﬁeld foran acute and original observer, but the other was sostrange in its inception and so dramatic in its detailsthat it may be the more worthy of being placed uponrecord, even if it gave my friend fewer openings forthose deductive methods of reasoning by which heachieved such remarkable results. The story has, Ibelieve, been told more than once in the newspapers,but, like all such narratives, its effect is much lessstriking when set forth en bloc in a single half-columnof print than when the facts slowly evolve before yourown eyes, and the mystery clears gradually away aseach new discovery furnishes a step which leads onto the complete truth. At the time the circumstancesmade a deep impression upon me, and the lapse oftwo years has hardly served to weaken the effect.It was in the summer of ’ 89, not long after my mar-riage, that the events occurred which I am now aboutto summarise. I had returned to civil practice and hadﬁnally abandoned Holmes in his Baker Street rooms,although I continually visited him and occasionallyeven persuaded him to forgo his Bohemian habits sofar as to come and visit us. My practice had steadilyincreased, and as I happened to live at no very greatdistance from Paddington Station, I got a few patientsfrom among the ofﬁcials. One of these, whom I hadcured of a painful and lingering disease, was neverweary of advertising my virtues and of endeavouringto send me on every sufferer over whom he mighthave any inﬂuence.One morning, at a little before seven o’clock, Iwas awakened by the maid tapping at the door toannounce that two men had come from Paddingtonand were waiting in the consulting-room. I dressedhurriedly, for I knew by experience that railway caseswere seldom trivial, and hastened downstairs. As Idescended, my old ally, the guard, came out of theroom and closed the door tightly behind him.“I’ve got him here,” he whispered, jerking histhumb over his shoulder; “he’s all right.”“What is it, then?” I asked, for his manner sug-gested that it was some strange creature which hehad caged up in my room.“It’s a new patient,” he whispered. “I thought I’dbring him round myself; then he couldn’t slip away.There he is, all safe and sound. I must go now, Doctor;I have my dooties, just the same as you.” And off hewent, this trusty tout, without even giving me time tothank him.I entered my consulting-room and found a gentle-man seated by the table. He was quietly dressed ina suit of heather tweed with a soft cloth cap whichhe had laid down upon my books. Round one of hishands he had a handkerchief wrapped, which wasmottled all over with bloodstains. He was young, notmore than ﬁve-and-twenty, I should say, with a strong,masculine face; but he was exceedingly pale and gaveme the impression of a man who was suffering fromsome strong agitation, which it took all his strengthof mind to control.“I am sorry to knock you up so early, Doctor,” saidhe, “but I have had a very serious accident duringthe night. I came in by train this morning, and oninquiring at Paddington as to where I might ﬁnd adoctor, a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here.I gave the maid a card, but I see that she has left itupon the side-table.”I took it up and glanced at it. “Mr. Victor Hather-ley, hydraulic engineer, 16A, Victoria Street ( 3rdﬂoor).” That was the name, style, and abode of mymorning visitor. “I regret that I have kept you wait-ing,” said I, sitting down in my library-chair. “Youare fresh from a night journey, I understand, which isin itself a monotonous occupation.”morning visitor. “I regret that I have kept you wait-ing,” said I, sitting down in my library-chair. “Youare fresh from a night journey, I understand, which isin itself a monotonous occupation.”“Oh, my night could not be called monotonous,”said he, and laughed. He laughed very heartily, witha high, ringing note, leaning back in his chair andshaking his sides. All my medical instincts rose upagainst that laugh.“Stop it!” I cried; “pull yourself together!” and Ipoured out some water from a caraffe.It was useless, however. He was off in one of thosehysterical outbursts which come upon a strong naturewhen some great crisis is over and gone. Presentlyhe came to himself once more, very weary and pale-looking.“I have been making a fool of myself,” he gasped.“Not at all. Drink this.” I dashed some brandyinto the water, and the colour began to come back tohis bloodless cheeks.“That’s better!” said he. “And now, Doctor, per-haps you would kindly attend to my thumb, or ratherto the place where my thumb used to be.”He unwound the handkerchief and held out hishand. It gave even my hardened nerves a shudder tolook at it. There were four protruding ﬁngers and ahorrid red, spongy surface where the thumb should109TheAdventure of the Engineer ’sThumbhave been. It had been hacked or torn right out fromthe roots.“Good heavens!” I cried, “this is a terrible injury.It must have bled considerably.”“Yes, it did. I fainted when it was done, and Ithink that I must have been senseless for a long time.When I came to I found that it was still bleeding, so Itied one end of my handkerchief very tightly roundthe wrist and braced it up with a twig.”“Excellent! You should have been a surgeon.”“It is a question of hydraulics, you see, and camewithin my own province.”“This has been done,” said I, examining thewound, “by a very heavy and sharp instrument.”“A thing like a cleaver,” said he.“An accident, I presume?”“By no means.”“What! a murderous attack?”“Very murderous indeed.”“You horrify me.”I sponged the wound, cleaned it, dressed it, andﬁnally covered it over with cotton wadding and car-bolised bandages. He lay back without wincing,though he bit his lip from time to time.“How is that?” I asked when I had ﬁnished.“Capital! Between your brandy and your bandage,I feel a new man. I was very weak, but I have had agood deal to go through.”“Perhaps you had better not speak of the matter.It is evidently trying to your nerves.”“Oh, no, not now. I shall have to tell my tale to thepolice; but, between ourselves, if it were not for theconvincing evidence of this wound of mine, I shouldbe surprised if they believed my statement, for it is avery extraordinary one, and I have not much in theway of proof with which to back it up; and, even ifthey believe me, the clues which I can give them areso vague that it is a question whether justice will bedone.”“Ha!” cried I, “if it is anything in the nature ofa problem which you desire to see solved, I shouldstrongly recommend you to come to my friend, Mr.Sherlock Holmes, before you go to the ofﬁcial police.”“Oh, I have heard of that fellow,” answered myvisitor, “and I should be very glad if he would takethe matter up, though of course I must use the ofﬁcialpolice as well. Would you give me an introduction tohim?”“I’ll do better. I’ll take you round to him myself.”“I should be immensely obliged to you.”“We’ll call a cab and go together. We shall just bein time to have a little breakfast with him. Do youfeel equal to it?”“Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told mystory.”“Then my servant will call a cab, and I shall bewith you in an instant.” I rushed upstairs, explainedthe matter shortly to my wife, and in ﬁve minutes wasinside a hansom, driving with my new acquaintanceto Baker Street.Sherlock Holmes was, as I expected, loungingabout his sitting-room in his dressing-gown, read-ing the agony column of The Times and smoking hisbefore-breakfast pipe, which was composed of all theplugs and dottles left from his smokes of the day be-fore, all carefully dried and collected on the corner ofthe mantelpiece. He received us in his quietly genialfashion, ordered fresh rashers and eggs, and joinedus in a hearty meal. When it was concluded he set-tled our new acquaintance upon the sofa, placed apillow beneath his head, and laid a glass of brandyand water within his reach.“It is easy to see that your experience has been nocommon one, Mr. Hatherley,” said he. “Pray, lie downthere and make yourself absolutely at home. Tell uswhat you can, but stop when you are tired and keepup your strength with a little stimulant.”“Thank you,” said my patient. “but I have felt an-other man since the doctor bandaged me, and I thinkthat your breakfast has completed the cure. I shalltake up as little of your valuable time as possible, so Ishall start at once upon my peculiar experiences.”Holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary,heavy-lidded expression which veiled his keen andeager nature, while I sat opposite to him, and we lis-tened in silence to the strange story which our visitordetailed to us.“You must know,” said he, “that I am an orphaneager nature, while I sat opposite to him, and we lis-tened in silence to the strange story which our visitordetailed to us.“You must know,” said he, “that I am an orphanand a bachelor, residing alone in lodgings in London.By profession I am a hydraulic engineer, and I havehad considerable experience of my work during theseven years that I was apprenticed to Venner & Math-eson, the well-known ﬁrm, of Greenwich. Two yearsago, having served my time, and having also comeinto a fair sum of money through my poor father’sdeath, I determined to start in business for myselfand took professional chambers in Victoria Street.“I suppose that everyone ﬁnds his ﬁrst indepen-dent start in business a dreary experience. To me ithas been exceptionally so. During two years I have110TheAdventure of the Engineer ’sThumbhad three consultations and one small job, and that isabsolutely all that my profession has brought me. Mygross takings amount to £27 10 s. Every day, from ninein the morning until four in the afternoon, I waitedin my little den, until at last my heart began to sink,and I came to believe that I should never have anypractice at all.“Yesterday, however, just as I was thinking of leav-ing the ofﬁce, my clerk entered to say there was agentleman waiting who wished to see me upon busi-ness. He brought up a card, too, with the name of‘Colonel Lysander Stark’ engraved upon it. Close athis heels came the colonel himself, a man rather overthe middle size, but of an exceeding thinness. I donot think that I have ever seen so thin a man. Hiswhole face sharpened away into nose and chin, andthe skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over hisoutstanding bones. Yet this emaciation seemed to behis natural habit, and due to no disease, for his eyewas bright, his step brisk, and his bearing assured. Hewas plainly but neatly dressed, and his age, I shouldjudge, would be nearer forty than thirty.“ ‘Mr. Hatherley?’ said he, with something of aGerman accent. ‘You have been recommended to me,Mr. Hatherley, as being a man who is not only proﬁ-cient in his profession but is also discreet and capableof preserving a secret.’“I bowed, feeling as ﬂattered as any young manwould at such an address. ‘May I ask who it was whogave me so good a character?’“ ‘Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tellyou that just at this moment. I have it from the samesource that you are both an orphan and a bachelorand are residing alone in London.’“ ‘That is quite correct,’ I answered; ‘but you willexcuse me if I say that I cannot see how all this bearsupon my professional qualiﬁcations. I understandthat it was on a professional matter that you wishedto speak to me?’“ ‘Undoubtedly so. But you will ﬁnd that all Isay is really to the point. I have a professional com-mission for you, but absolute secrecy is quite essen-tial—absolute secrecy, you understand, and of coursewe may expect that more from a man who is alonethan from one who lives in the bosom of his family.’“ ‘If I promise to keep a secret,’ said I, ‘you mayabsolutely depend upon my doing so.’“He looked very hard at me as I spoke, and itseemed to me that I had never seen so suspicious andquestioning an eye.“ ‘Do you promise, then?’ said he at last.“ ‘Yes, I promise.’“ ‘Absolute and complete silence before, during,and after? No reference to the matter at all, either inword or writing?’“ ‘I have already given you my word.’“ ‘Very good.’ He suddenly sprang up, and dart-ing like lightning across the room he ﬂung open thedoor. The passage outside was empty.“ ‘That’s all right,’ said he, coming back. ‘I knowthat clerks are sometimes curious as to their master’saffairs. Now we can talk in safety.’ He drew up hischair very close to mine and began to stare at meagain with the same questioning and thoughtful look.“A feeling of repulsion, and of something akin tofear had begun to rise within me at the strange anticsof this ﬂeshless man. Even my dread of losing a clientcould not restrain me from showing my impatience.“ ‘I beg that you will state your business, sir,’ saidI; ‘my time is of value.’ Heaven forgive me for thatlast sentence, but the words came to my lips.“ ‘How would ﬁfty guineas for a night’s work suityou?’ he asked.“ ‘Most admirably.’“ ‘I say a night’s work, but an hour’s would benearer the mark. I simply want your opinion abouta hydraulic stamping machine which has got out ofgear. If you show us what is wrong we shall soonset it right ourselves. What do you think of such acommission as that?’“ ‘The work appears to be light and the pay mu-niﬁcent.’“ ‘Precisely so. We shall want you to come to-nightby the last train.’“ ‘Where to?’“ ‘To Eyford, in Berkshire. It is a little place near“ ‘The work appears to be light and the pay mu-niﬁcent.’“ ‘Precisely so. We shall want you to come to-nightby the last train.’“ ‘Where to?’“ ‘To Eyford, in Berkshire. It is a little place nearthe borders of Oxfordshire, and within seven milesof Reading. There is a train from Paddington whichwould bring you there at about 11.15.’“ ‘Very good.’“ ‘I shall come down in a carriage to meet you.’“ ‘There is a drive, then?’“ ‘Yes, our little place is quite out in the country. Itis a good seven miles from Eyford Station.’“ ‘Then we can hardly get there before midnight. Isuppose there would be no chance of a train back. Ishould be compelled to stop the night.’“ ‘Yes, we could easily give you a shake-down.’“ ‘That is very awkward. Could I not come at somemore convenient hour?’111TheAdventure of the Engineer ’sThumb“ ‘We have judged it best that you should comelate. It is to recompense you for any inconveniencethat we are paying to you, a young and unknownman, a fee which would buy an opinion from thevery heads of your profession. Still, of course, if youwould like to draw out of the business, there is plentyof time to do so.’“I thought of the ﬁfty guineas, and of how veryuseful they would be to me. ‘Not at all,’ said I, ‘Ishall be very happy to accommodate myself to yourwishes. I should like, however, to understand a littlemore clearly what it is that you wish me to do.’“ ‘Quite so. It is very natural that the pledge ofsecrecy which we have exacted from you should havearoused your curiosity. I have no wish to commityou to anything without your having it all laid be-fore you. I suppose that we are absolutely safe fromeavesdroppers?’“ ‘Entirely.’“ ‘Then the matter stands thus. You are probablyaware that fuller’s-earth is a valuable product, andthat it is only found in one or two places in England?’“ ‘I have heard so.’“ ‘Some little time ago I bought a small place—avery small place—within ten miles of Reading. I wasfortunate enough to discover that there was a depositof fuller’s-earth in one of my ﬁelds. On examiningit, however, I found that this deposit was a compara-tively small one, and that it formed a link between twovery much larger ones upon the right and left—bothof them, however, in the grounds of my neighbours.These good people were absolutely ignorant that theirland contained that which was quite as valuable asa gold-mine. Naturally, it was to my interest to buytheir land before they discovered its true value, butunfortunately I had no capital by which I could dothis. I took a few of my friends into the secret, how-ever, and they suggested that we should quietly andsecretly work our own little deposit and that in thisway we should earn the money which would enableus to buy the neighbouring ﬁelds. This we have nowbeen doing for some time, and in order to help usin our operations we erected a hydraulic press. Thispress, as I have already explained, has got out of order,and we wish your advice upon the subject. We guardour secret very jealously, however, and if it once be-came known that we had hydraulic engineers comingto our little house, it would soon rouse inquiry, andthen, if the facts came out, it would be good-bye toany chance of getting these ﬁelds and carrying outour plans. That is why I have made you promiseme that you will not tell a human being that you aregoing to Eyford to-night. I hope that I make it allplain?’“ ‘I quite follow you,’ said I. ‘The only point whichI could not quite understand was what use you couldmake of a hydraulic press in excavating fuller’s-earth,which, as I understand, is dug out like gravel from apit.’“ ‘Ah!’ said he carelessly, ‘we have our own pro-cess. We compress the earth into bricks, so as toremove them without revealing what they are. Butthat is a mere detail. I have taken you fully into myconﬁdence now, Mr. Hatherley, and I have shown youhow I trust you.’ He rose as he spoke. ‘I shall expectyou, then, at Eyford at 11.15.’“ ‘I shall certainly be there.’“ ‘And not a word to a soul.’ He looked at mewith a last long, questioning gaze, and then, pressingmy hand in a cold, dank grasp, he hurried from theroom.“Well, when I came to think it all over in coolblood I was very much astonished, as you may boththink, at this sudden commission which had beenintrusted to me. On the one hand, of course, I wasglad, for the fee was at least tenfold what I shouldhave asked had I set a price upon my own services,and it was possible that this order might lead to otherones. On the other hand, the face and manner ofmy patron had made an unpleasant impression uponme, and I could not think that his explanation of thefuller’s-earth was sufﬁcient to explain the necessitymy patron had made an unpleasant impression uponme, and I could not think that his explanation of thefuller’s-earth was sufﬁcient to explain the necessityfor my coming at midnight, and his extreme anxietylest I should tell anyone of my errand. However, Ithrew all fears to the winds, ate a hearty supper, droveto Paddington, and started off, having obeyed to theletter the injunction as to holding my tongue.“At Reading I had to change not only my carriagebut my station. However, I was in time for the lasttrain to Eyford, and I reached the little dim-lit stationafter eleven o’clock. I was the only passenger who gotout there, and there was no one upon the platformsave a single sleepy porter with a lantern. As I passedout through the wicket gate, however, I found myacquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadowupon the other side. Without a word he grasped myarm and hurried me into a carriage, the door of whichwas standing open. He drew up the windows on ei-ther side, tapped on the wood-work, and away wewent as fast as the horse could go.”“One horse?” interjected Holmes.“Yes, only one.”“Did you observe the colour?”112TheAdventure of the Engineer ’sThumb“Yes, I saw it by the side-lights when I was step-ping into the carriage. It was a chestnut.”“Tired-looking or fresh?”“Oh, fresh and glossy.”“Thank you. I am sorry to have interrupted you.Pray continue your most interesting statement.”“Away we went then, and we drove for at leastan hour. Colonel Lysander Stark had said that it wasonly seven miles, but I should think, from the ratethat we seemed to go, and from the time that we took,that it must have been nearer twelve. He sat at myside in silence all the time, and I was aware, morethan once when I glanced in his direction, that hewas looking at me with great intensity. The countryroads seem to be not very good in that part of theworld, for we lurched and jolted terribly. I tried tolook out of the windows to see something of wherewe were, but they were made of frosted glass, andI could make out nothing save the occasional brightblur of a passing light. Now and then I hazardedsome remark to break the monotony of the journey,but the colonel answered only in monosyllables, andthe conversation soon ﬂagged. At last, however, thebumping of the road was exchanged for the crispsmoothness of a gravel-drive, and the carriage cameto a stand. Colonel Lysander Stark sprang out, and,as I followed after him, pulled me swiftly into a porchwhich gaped in front of us. We stepped, as it were,right out of the carriage and into the hall, so that Ifailed to catch the most ﬂeeting glance of the front ofthe house. The instant that I had crossed the thresh-old the door slammed heavily behind us, and I heardfaintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage droveaway.“It was pitch dark inside the house, and thecolonel fumbled about looking for matches and mut-tering under his breath. Suddenly a door opened atthe other end of the passage, and a long, golden barof light shot out in our direction. It grew broader, anda woman appeared with a lamp in her hand, whichshe held above her head, pushing her face forwardand peering at us. I could see that she was pretty,and from the gloss with which the light shone uponher dark dress I knew that it was a rich material. Shespoke a few words in a foreign tongue in a tone asthough asking a question, and when my companionanswered in a gruff monosyllable she gave such astart that the lamp nearly fell from her hand. ColonelStark went up to her, whispered something in herear, and then, pushing her back into the room fromwhence she had come, he walked towards me againwith the lamp in his hand.“ ‘Perhaps you will have the kindness to wait inthis room for a few minutes,’ said he, throwing openanother door. It was a quiet, little, plainly furnishedroom, with a round table in the centre, on which sev-eral German books were scattered. Colonel Stark laiddown the lamp on the top of a harmonium beside thedoor. ‘I shall not keep you waiting an instant,’ saidhe, and vanished into the darkness.“I glanced at the books upon the table, and inspite of my ignorance of German I could see that twoof them were treatises on science, the others beingvolumes of poetry. Then I walked across to the win-dow, hoping that I might catch some glimpse of thecountry-side, but an oak shutter, heavily barred, wasfolded across it. It was a wonderfully silent house.There was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere inthe passage, but otherwise everything was deadlystill. A vague feeling of uneasiness began to stealover me. Who were these German people, and whatwere they doing living in this strange, out-of-the-wayplace? And where was the place? I was ten miles or sofrom Eyford, that was all I knew, but whether north,south, east, or west I had no idea. For that matter,Reading, and possibly other large towns, were withinthat radius, so the place might not be so secluded,after all. Yet it was quite certain, from the absolutestillness, that we were in the country. I paced up andthat radius, so the place might not be so secluded,after all. Yet it was quite certain, from the absolutestillness, that we were in the country. I paced up anddown the room, humming a tune under my breath tokeep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughlyearning my ﬁfty-guinea fee.“Suddenly, without any preliminary sound in themidst of the utter stillness, the door of my roomswung slowly open. The woman was standing inthe aperture, the darkness of the hall behind her, theyellow light from my lamp beating upon her eagerand beautiful face. I could see at a glance that shewas sick with fear, and the sight sent a chill to myown heart. She held up one shaking ﬁnger to warnme to be silent, and she shot a few whispered wordsof broken English at me, her eyes glancing back, likethose of a frightened horse, into the gloom behindher.“ ‘I would go,’ said she, trying hard, as it seemedto me, to speak calmly; ‘I would go. I should not stayhere. There is no good for you to do.’“ ‘But, madam,’ said I, ‘I have not yet done what Icame for. I cannot possibly leave until I have seen themachine.’“ ‘It is not worth your while to wait,’ she went on.‘You can pass through the door; no one hinders.’ Andthen, seeing that I smiled and shook my head, shesuddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step113TheAdventure of the Engineer ’sThumbforward, with her hands wrung together. ‘For thelove of Heaven!’ she whispered, ‘get away from herebefore it is too late!’“But I am somewhat headstrong by nature, andthe more ready to engage in an affair when there issome obstacle in the way. I thought of my ﬁfty-guineafee, of my wearisome journey, and of the unpleasantnight which seemed to be before me. Was it all togo for nothing? Why should I slink away withouthaving carried out my commission, and without thepayment which was my due? This woman might,for all I knew, be a monomaniac. With a stout bear-ing, therefore, though her manner had shaken memore than I cared to confess, I still shook my headand declared my intention of remaining where I was.She was about to renew her entreaties when a doorslammed overhead, and the sound of several footstepswas heard upon the stairs. She listened for an instant,threw up her hands with a despairing gesture, andvanished as suddenly and as noiselessly as she hadcome.“The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark anda short thick man with a chinchilla beard growing outof the creases of his double chin, who was introducedto me as Mr. Ferguson.“ ‘This is my secretary and manager,’ said thecolonel. ‘By the way, I was under the impressionthat I left this door shut just now. I fear that you havefelt the draught.’“ ‘On the contrary,’ said I, ‘I opened the door my-self because I felt the room to be a little close.’“He shot one of his suspicious looks at me. ‘Per-haps we had better proceed to business, then,’ saidhe. ‘Mr. Ferguson and I will take you up to see themachine.’“ ‘I had better put my hat on, I suppose.’“ ‘Oh, no, it is in the house.’“ ‘What, you dig fuller’s-earth in the house?’“ ‘No, no. This is only where we compress it. Butnever mind that. All we wish you to do is to examinethe machine and to let us know what is wrong withit.’“We went upstairs together, the colonel ﬁrst withthe lamp, the fat manager and I behind him. It wasa labyrinth of an old house, with corridors, passages,narrow winding staircases, and little low doors, thethresholds of which were hollowed out by the gen-erations who had crossed them. There were no car-pets and no signs of any furniture above the groundﬂoor, while the plaster was peeling off the walls, andthe damp was breaking through in green, unhealthyblotches. I tried to put on as unconcerned an air aspossible, but I had not forgotten the warnings of thelady, even though I disregarded them, and I kept akeen eye upon my two companions. Ferguson ap-peared to be a morose and silent man, but I couldsee from the little that he said that he was at least afellow-countryman.“Colonel Lysander Stark stopped at last before alow door, which he unlocked. Within was a small,square room, in which the three of us could hardlyget at one time. Ferguson remained outside, and thecolonel ushered me in.“ ‘We are now,’ said he, ‘actually within the hy-draulic press, and it would be a particularly unpleas-ant thing for us if anyone were to turn it on. Theceiling of this small chamber is really the end of thedescending piston, and it comes down with the forceof many tons upon this metal ﬂoor. There are smalllateral columns of water outside which receive theforce, and which transmit and multiply it in the man-ner which is familiar to you. The machine goes readilyenough, but there is some stiffness in the working ofit, and it has lost a little of its force. Perhaps you willhave the goodness to look it over and to show us howwe can set it right.’“I took the lamp from him, and I examined themachine very thoroughly. It was indeed a giganticone, and capable of exercising enormous pressure.When I passed outside, however, and pressed downthe levers which controlled it, I knew at once by thewhishing sound that there was a slight leakage, whichallowed a regurgitation of water through one of thethe levers which controlled it, I knew at once by thewhishing sound that there was a slight leakage, whichallowed a regurgitation of water through one of theside cylinders. An examination showed that one ofthe india-rubber bands which was round the head ofa driving-rod had shrunk so as not quite to ﬁll thesocket along which it worked. This was clearly thecause of the loss of power, and I pointed it out to mycompanions, who followed my remarks very carefullyand asked several practical questions as to how theyshould proceed to set it right. When I had made itclear to them, I returned to the main chamber of themachine and took a good look at it to satisfy my owncuriosity. It was obvious at a glance that the storyof the fuller’s-earth was the merest fabrication, forit would be absurd to suppose that so powerful anengine could be designed for so inadequate a purpose.The walls were of wood, but the ﬂoor consisted ofa large iron trough, and when I came to examine itI could see a crust of metallic deposit all over it. Ihad stooped and was scraping at this to see exactlywhat it was when I heard a muttered exclamation in114TheAdventure of the Engineer ’sThumbGerman and saw the cadaverous face of the colonellooking down at me.“ ‘What are you doing there?’ he asked.“I felt angry at having been tricked by so elaboratea story as that which he had told me. ‘I was admiringyour fuller’s-earth,’ said I; ‘I think that I should bebetter able to advise you as to your machine if I knewwhat the exact purpose was for which it was used.’“The instant that I uttered the words I regrettedthe rashness of my speech. His face set hard, and abaleful light sprang up in his grey eyes.“ ‘Very well,’ said he, ‘you shall know all aboutthe machine.’ He took a step backward, slammed thelittle door, and turned the key in the lock. I rushedtowards it and pulled at the handle, but it was quitesecure, and did not give in the least to my kicks andshoves. ‘Hullo!’ I yelled. ‘Hullo! Colonel! Let meout!’“And then suddenly in the silence I heard a soundwhich sent my heart into my mouth. It was the clankof the levers and the swish of the leaking cylinder. Hehad set the engine at work. The lamp still stood uponthe ﬂoor where I had placed it when examining thetrough. By its light I saw that the black ceiling wascoming down upon me, slowly, jerkily, but, as noneknew better than myself, with a force which mustwithin a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp. I threwmyself, screaming, against the door, and draggedwith my nails at the lock. I implored the colonel tolet me out, but the remorseless clanking of the leversdrowned my cries. The ceiling was only a foot or twoabove my head, and with my hand upraised I couldfeel its hard, rough surface. Then it ﬂashed throughmy mind that the pain of my death would dependvery much upon the position in which I met it. If I layon my face the weight would come upon my spine,and I shuddered to think of that dreadful snap. Easierthe other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve to lieand look up at that deadly black shadow waveringdown upon me? Already I was unable to stand erect,when my eye caught something which brought a gushof hope back to my heart.“I have said that though the ﬂoor and ceiling wereof iron, the walls were of wood. As I gave a last hur-ried glance around, I saw a thin line of yellow lightbetween two of the boards, which broadened andbroadened as a small panel was pushed backward.For an instant I could hardly believe that here wasindeed a door which led away from death. The nextinstant I threw myself through, and lay half-faintingupon the other side. The panel had closed againbehind me, but the crash of the lamp, and a few mo-ments afterwards the clang of the two slabs of metal,told me how narrow had been my escape.“I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking atmy wrist, and I found myself lying upon the stoneﬂoor of a narrow corridor, while a woman bent overme and tugged at me with her left hand, while sheheld a candle in her right. It was the same good friendwhose warning I had so foolishly rejected.“ ‘Come! come!’ she cried breathlessly. ‘They willbe here in a moment. They will see that you are notthere. Oh, do not waste the so-precious time, butcome!’“This time, at least, I did not scorn her advice.I staggered to my feet and ran with her along thecorridor and down a winding stair. The latter led toanother broad passage, and just as we reached it weheard the sound of running feet and the shouting oftwo voices, one answering the other from the ﬂoor onwhich we were and from the one beneath. My guidestopped and looked about her like one who is at herwit’s end. Then she threw open a door which led intoa bedroom, through the window of which the moonwas shining brightly.“ ‘It is your only chance,’ said she. ‘It is high, butit may be that you can jump it.’“As she spoke a light sprang into view at the fur-ther end of the passage, and I saw the lean ﬁgureof Colonel Lysander Stark rushing forward with alantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher’s“As she spoke a light sprang into view at the fur-ther end of the passage, and I saw the lean ﬁgureof Colonel Lysander Stark rushing forward with alantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher’scleaver in the other. I rushed across the bedroom,ﬂung open the window, and looked out. How quietand sweet and wholesome the garden looked in themoonlight, and it could not be more than thirty feetdown. I clambered out upon the sill, but I hesitated tojump until I should have heard what passed betweenmy saviour and the rufﬁan who pursued me. If shewere ill-used, then at any risks I was determined togo back to her assistance. The thought had hardlyﬂashed through my mind before he was at the door,pushing his way past her; but she threw her armsround him and tried to hold him back.“ ‘Fritz! Fritz!’ she cried in English, ‘rememberyour promise after the last time. You said it shouldnot be again. He will be silent! Oh, he will be silent!’“ ‘You are mad, Elise!’ he shouted, struggling tobreak away from her. ‘You will be the ruin of us. Hehas seen too much. Let me pass, I say!’ He dashedher to one side, and, rushing to the window, cut atme with his heavy weapon. I had let myself go, andwas hanging by the hands to the sill, when his blow115TheAdventure of the Engineer ’sThumbfell. I was conscious of a dull pain, my grip loosened,and I fell into the garden below.“I was shaken but not hurt by the fall; so I pickedmyself up and rushed off among the bushes as hardas I could run, for I understood that I was far frombeing out of danger yet. Suddenly, however, as Iran, a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me.I glanced down at my hand, which was throbbingpainfully, and then, for the ﬁrst time, saw that mythumb had been cut off and that the blood was pour-ing from my wound. I endeavoured to tie my hand-kerchief round it, but there came a sudden buzzingin my ears, and next moment I fell in a dead faintamong the rose-bushes.“How long I remained unconscious I cannot tell.It must have been a very long time, for the moonhad sunk, and a bright morning was breaking when Icame to myself. My clothes were all sodden with dew,and my coat-sleeve was drenched with blood frommy wounded thumb. The smarting of it recalled inan instant all the particulars of my night’s adventure,and I sprang to my feet with the feeling that I mighthardly yet be safe from my pursuers. But to my as-tonishment, when I came to look round me, neitherhouse nor garden were to be seen. I had been lyingin an angle of the hedge close by the highroad, andjust a little lower down was a long building, whichproved, upon my approaching it, to be the very sta-tion at which I had arrived upon the previous night.Were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand, allthat had passed during those dreadful hours mighthave been an evil dream.“Half dazed, I went into the station and askedabout the morning train. There would be one to Read-ing in less than an hour. The same porter was onduty, I found, as had been there when I arrived. Iinquired of him whether he had ever heard of ColonelLysander Stark. The name was strange to him. Hadhe observed a carriage the night before waiting forme? No, he had not. Was there a police-station any-where near? There was one about three miles off.“It was too far for me to go, weak and ill as Iwas. I determined to wait until I got back to townbefore telling my story to the police. It was a littlepast six when I arrived, so I went ﬁrst to have mywound dressed, and then the doctor was kind enoughto bring me along here. I put the case into your handsand shall do exactly what you advise.”We both sat in silence for some little time afterlistening to this extraordinary narrative. Then Sher-lock Holmes pulled down from the shelf one of theponderous commonplace books in which he placedhis cuttings.“Here is an advertisement which will interest you,”said he. “It appeared in all the papers about a yearago. Listen to this:“ ‘Lost, on the 9th inst., Mr. JeremiahHayling, aged twenty-six, a hydraulic engi-neer. Left his lodgings at ten o’clock at night,and has not been heard of since. Was dressedin—’etc., etc. Ha! That represents the last time that thecolonel needed to have his machine overhauled, Ifancy.”“Good heavens!” cried my patient. “Then thatexplains what the girl said.”“Undoubtedly. It is quite clear that the colonelwas a cool and desperate man, who was absolutelydetermined that nothing should stand in the way ofhis little game, like those out-and-out pirates whowill leave no survivor from a captured ship. Well,every moment now is precious, so if you feel equalto it we shall go down to Scotland Yard at once as apreliminary to starting for Eyford.”Some three hours or so afterwards we were all inthe train together, bound from Reading to the littleBerkshire village. There were Sherlock Holmes, thehydraulic engineer, Inspector Bradstreet, of ScotlandYard, a plain-clothes man, and myself. Bradstreethad spread an ordnance map of the county out uponthe seat and was busy with his compasses drawing acircle with Eyford for its centre.“There you are,” said he. “That circle is drawn athad spread an ordnance map of the county out uponthe seat and was busy with his compasses drawing acircle with Eyford for its centre.“There you are,” said he. “That circle is drawn ata radius of ten miles from the village. The place wewant must be somewhere near that line. You said tenmiles, I think, sir.”“It was an hour’s good drive.”“And you think that they brought you back allthat way when you were unconscious?”“They must have done so. I have a confused mem-ory, too, of having been lifted and conveyed some-where.”“What I cannot understand,” said I, “is why theyshould have spared you when they found you lyingfainting in the garden. Perhaps the villain was soft-ened by the woman’s entreaties.”“I hardly think that likely. I never saw a moreinexorable face in my life.”“Oh, we shall soon clear up all that,” said Brad-street. “Well, I have drawn my circle, and I only wishI knew at what point upon it the folk that we are insearch of are to be found.”116TheAdventure of the Engineer ’sThumb“I think I could lay my ﬁnger on it,” said Holmesquietly.“Really, now!” cried the inspector, “you haveformed your opinion! Come, now, we shall see whoagrees with you. I say it is south, for the country ismore deserted there.”“And I say east,” said my patient.“I am for west,” remarked the plain-clothes man.“There are several quiet little villages up there.”“And I am for north,” said I, “because there are nohills there, and our friend says that he did not noticethe carriage go up any.”“Come,” cried the inspector, laughing; “it’s a verypretty diversity of opinion. We have boxed the com-pass among us. Who do you give your casting voteto?”“You are all wrong.”“But we can’t allbe.”“Oh, yes, you can. This is my point.” He placedhis ﬁnger in the centre of the circle. “This is wherewe shall ﬁnd them.”“But the twelve-mile drive?” gasped Hatherley.“Six out and six back. Nothing simpler. You sayyourself that the horse was fresh and glossy whenyou got in. How could it be that if it had gone twelvemiles over heavy roads?”“Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough,” observed Brad-street thoughtfully. “Of course there can be no doubtas to the nature of this gang.”“None at all,” said Holmes. “They are coiners ona large scale, and have used the machine to form theamalgam which has taken the place of silver.”“We have known for some time that a clever gangwas at work,” said the inspector. “They have beenturning out half-crowns by the thousand. We eventraced them as far as Reading, but could get no farther,for they had covered their traces in a way that showedthat they were very old hands. But now, thanks tothis lucky chance, I think that we have got them rightenough.”But the inspector was mistaken, for those crimi-nals were not destined to fall into the hands of justice.As we rolled into Eyford Station we saw a giganticcolumn of smoke which streamed up from behind asmall clump of trees in the neighbourhood and hunglike an immense ostrich feather over the landscape.“A house on ﬁre?” asked Bradstreet as the trainsteamed off again on its way.“Yes, sir!” said the station-master.“When did it break out?”“I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it hasgot worse, and the whole place is in a blaze.”“Whose house is it?”“Dr. Becher’s.”“Tell me,” broke in the engineer, “is Dr. Becher aGerman, very thin, with a long, sharp nose?”The station-master laughed heartily. “No, sir, Dr.Becher is an Englishman, and there isn’t a man in theparish who has a better-lined waistcoat. But he hasa gentleman staying with him, a patient, as I under-stand, who is a foreigner, and he looks as if a littlegood Berkshire beef would do him no harm.”The station-master had not ﬁnished his speechbefore we were all hastening in the direction of theﬁre. The road topped a low hill, and there was agreat widespread whitewashed building in front ofus, spouting ﬁre at every chink and window, whilein the garden in front three ﬁre-engines were vainlystriving to keep the ﬂames under.“That’s it!” cried Hatherley, in intense excitement.“There is the gravel-drive, and there are the rose-bushes where I lay. That second window is the onethat I jumped from.”“Well, at least,” said Holmes, “you have had yourrevenge upon them. There can be no question that itwas your oil-lamp which, when it was crushed in thepress, set ﬁre to the wooden walls, though no doubtthey were too excited in the chase after you to observeit at the time. Now keep your eyes open in this crowdfor your friends of last night, though I very much fearthat they are a good hundred miles off by now.”And Holmes’ fears came to be realised, for fromthat day to this no word has ever been heard eitherof the beautiful woman, the sinister German, or themorose Englishman. Early that morning a peasanthad met a cart containing several people and somevery bulky boxes driving rapidly in the direction ofmorose Englishman. Early that morning a peasanthad met a cart containing several people and somevery bulky boxes driving rapidly in the direction ofReading, but there all traces of the fugitives disap-peared, and even Holmes’ ingenuity failed ever todiscover the least clue as to their whereabouts.The ﬁremen had been much perturbed at thestrange arrangements which they had found within,and still more so by discovering a newly severed hu-man thumb upon a window-sill of the second ﬂoor.About sunset, however, their efforts were at last suc-cessful, and they subdued the ﬂames, but not beforethe roof had fallen in, and the whole place been re-duced to such absolute ruin that, save some twistedcylinders and iron piping, not a trace remained of117TheAdventure of the Engineer ’sThumbthe machinery which had cost our unfortunate ac-quaintance so dearly. Large masses of nickel and oftin were discovered stored in an out-house, but nocoins were to be found, which may have explainedthe presence of those bulky boxes which have beenalready referred to.How our hydraulic engineer had been conveyedfrom the garden to the spot where he recovered hissenses might have remained forever a mystery wereit not for the soft mould, which told us a very plaintale. He had evidently been carried down by two per-sons, one of whom had remarkably small feet and theother unusually large ones. On the whole, it was mostprobable that the silent Englishman, being less boldor less murderous than his companion, had assistedthe woman to bear the unconscious man out of theway of danger.“Well,” said our engineer ruefully as we took ourseats to return once more to London, “it has been apretty business for me! I have lost my thumb and Ihave lost a ﬁfty-guinea fee, and what have I gained?”“Experience,” said Holmes, laughing. “Indirectlyit may be of value, you know; you have only to put itinto words to gain the reputation of being excellentcompany for the remainder of your existence.”118The Adventure of the Noble BachelorTheAdventure of the Noble BachelorTheLord St. Simon marriage, and its curi-ous termination, have long ceased to be asubject of interest in those exalted circles inwhich the unfortunate bridegroom moves.Fresh scandals have eclipsed it, and their more pi-quant details have drawn the gossips away from thisfour-year-old drama. As I have reason to believe, how-ever, that the full facts have never been revealed to thegeneral public, and as my friend Sherlock Holmes hada considerable share in clearing the matter up, I feelthat no memoir of him would be complete withoutsome little sketch of this remarkable episode.It was a few weeks before my own marriage, dur-ing the days when I was still sharing rooms withHolmes in Baker Street, that he came home from anafternoon stroll to ﬁnd a letter on the table waiting forhim. I had remained indoors all day, for the weatherhad taken a sudden turn to rain, with high autum-nal winds, and the Jezail bullet which I had broughtback in one of my limbs as a relic of my Afghancampaign throbbed with dull persistence. With mybody in one easy-chair and my legs upon another, Ihad surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapersuntil at last, saturated with the news of the day, Itossed them all aside and lay listless, watching thehuge crest and monogram upon the envelope uponthe table and wondering lazily who my friend’s noblecorrespondent could be.“Here is a very fashionable epistle,” I remarkedas he entered. “Your morning letters, if I rememberright, were from a ﬁsh-monger and a tide-waiter.”“Yes, my correspondence has certainly the charmof variety,” he answered, smiling, “and the humblerare usually the more interesting. This looks like one ofthose unwelcome social summonses which call upona man either to be bored or to lie.”He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.“Oh, come, it may prove to be something of inter-est, after all.”“Not social, then?”“No, distinctly professional.”“And from a noble client?”“One of the highest in England.”“My dear fellow, I congratulate you.”“I assure you, Watson, without affectation, thatthe status of my client is a matter of less moment tome than the interest of his case. It is just possible,however, that that also may not be wanting in thisnew investigation. You have been reading the papersdiligently of late, have you not?”“It looks like it,” said I ruefully, pointing to a hugebundle in the corner. “I have had nothing else to do.”“It is fortunate, for you will perhaps be able topost me up. I read nothing except the criminal newsand the agony column. The latter is always instruc-tive. But if you have followed recent events so closelyyou must have read about Lord St. Simon and hiswedding?”“Oh, yes, with the deepest interest.”“That is well. The letter which I hold in my handis from Lord St. Simon. I will read it to you, and inreturn you must turn over these papers and let mehave whatever bears upon the matter. This is what hesays:“ ‘My dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes :“ ‘Lord Backwater tells me that I mayplace implicit reliance upon your judg-ment and discretion. I have determined,therefore, to call upon you and to consultyou in reference to the very painful eventwhich has occurred in connection with mywedding. Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard,is acting already in the matter, but he as-sures me that he sees no objection to yourco-operation, and that he even thinks thatit might be of some assistance. I will call atfour o’clock in the afternoon, and, shouldyou have any other engagement at thattime, I hope that you will postpone it, asthis matter is of paramount importance.— “ ‘Yours faithfully,“ ‘St. Simon .’“It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions, writtenwith a quill pen, and the noble lord has had the mis-fortune to get a smear of ink upon the outer side ofhis right little ﬁnger,” remarked Holmes as he foldedup the epistle.“He says four o’clock. It is three now. He will behere in an hour.”fortune to get a smear of ink upon the outer side ofhis right little ﬁnger,” remarked Holmes as he foldedup the epistle.“He says four o’clock. It is three now. He will behere in an hour.”“Then I have just time, with your assistance, toget clear upon the subject. Turn over those papersand arrange the extracts in their order of time, whileI take a glance as to who our client is.” He picked ared-covered volume from a line of books of referencebeside the mantelpiece. “Here he is,” said he, sittingdown and ﬂattening it out upon his knee. “ ‘LordRobert Walsingham de Vere St. Simon, second son ofthe Duke of Balmoral.’ Hum! ‘Arms: Azure, threecaltrops in chief over a fess sable. Born in 1846 .’ He’sforty-one years of age, which is mature for marriage.121TheAdventure of the Noble BachelorWas Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late admin-istration. The Duke, his father, was at one time Sec-retary for Foreign Affairs. They inherit Plantagenetblood by direct descent, and Tudor on the distaff side.Ha! Well, there is nothing very instructive in all this.I think that I must turn to you Watson, for somethingmore solid.”“I have very little difﬁculty in ﬁnding what I want,”said I, “for the facts are quite recent, and the matterstruck me as remarkable. I feared to refer them to you,however, as I knew that you had an inquiry on handand that you disliked the intrusion of other matters.”“Oh, you mean the little problem of the GrosvenorSquare furniture van. That is quite cleared upnow—though, indeed, it was obvious from the ﬁrst.Pray give me the results of your newspaper selec-tions.”“Here is the ﬁrst notice which I can ﬁnd. It is inthe personal column of the Morning Post , and dates,as you see, some weeks back:“ ‘A marriage has been arranged [it says] andwill, if rumour is correct, very shortly takeplace, between Lord Robert St. Simon, secondson of the Duke of Balmoral, and Miss HattyDoran, the only daughter of Aloysius Doran.Esq., of San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.’That is all.”“Terse and to the point,” remarked Holmes,stretching his long, thin legs towards the ﬁre.“There was a paragraph amplifying this in one ofthe society papers of the same week. Ah, here it is:“ ‘There will soon be a call for protection inthe marriage market, for the present free-tradeprinciple appears to tell heavily against ourhome product. One by one the managementof the noble houses of Great Britain is pass-ing into the hands of our fair cousins fromacross the Atlantic. An important additionhas been made during the last week to thelist of the prizes which have been borne awayby these charming invaders. Lord St. Simon,who has shown himself for over twenty yearsproof against the little god’s arrows, has nowdeﬁnitely announced his approaching mar-riage with Miss Hatty Doran, the fascinatingdaughter of a California millionaire. Miss Do-ran, whose graceful ﬁgure and striking face at-tracted much attention at the Westbury Housefestivities, is an only child, and it is currentlyreported that her dowry will run to consider-ably over the six ﬁgures, with expectancies forthe future. As it is an open secret that theDuke of Balmoral has been compelled to sellhis pictures within the last few years, and asLord St. Simon has no property of his ownsave the small estate of Birchmoor, it is obvi-ous that the Californian heiress is not the onlygainer by an alliance which will enable her tomake the easy and common transition from aRepublican lady to a British peeress.’ ”“Anything else?” asked Holmes, yawning.“Oh, yes; plenty. Then there is another note inthe Morning Post to say that the marriage wouldbe an absolutely quiet one, that it would be at St.George’s, Hanover Square, that only half a dozen in-timate friends would be invited, and that the partywould return to the furnished house at Lancaster Gatewhich has been taken by Mr. Aloysius Doran. Twodays later—that is, on Wednesday last—there is acurt announcement that the wedding had taken place,and that the honeymoon would be passed at LordBackwater’s place, near Petersﬁeld. Those are all thenotices which appeared before the disappearance ofthe bride.”“Before the what?” asked Holmes with a start.“The vanishing of the lady.”“When did she vanish, then?”“At the wedding breakfast.”“Indeed. This is more interesting than it promisedto be; quite dramatic, in fact.”“Yes; it struck me as being a little out of the com-mon.”“They often vanish before the ceremony, and occa-sionally during the honeymoon; but I cannot call tomind anything quite so prompt as this. Pray let mehave the details.”“I warn you that they are very incomplete.”“Perhaps we may make them less so.”mind anything quite so prompt as this. Pray let mehave the details.”“I warn you that they are very incomplete.”“Perhaps we may make them less so.”“Such as they are, they are set forth in a singlearticle of a morning paper of yesterday, which I willread to you. It is headed, ‘Singular Occurrence at aFashionable Wedding’:“ ‘The family of Lord Robert St. Simon hasbeen thrown into the greatest consternation bythe strange and painful episodes which havetaken place in connection with his wedding.The ceremony, as shortly announced in thepapers of yesterday, occurred on the previousmorning; but it is only now that it has beenpossible to conﬁrm the strange rumours whichhave been so persistently ﬂoating about. Inspite of the attempts of the friends to hush the122TheAdventure of the Noble Bachelormatter up, so much public attention has nowbeen drawn to it that no good purpose can beserved by affecting to disregard what is a com-mon subject for conversation.“ ‘The ceremony, which was performed at St.George’s, Hanover Square, was a very quietone, no one being present save the father ofthe bride, Mr. Aloysius Doran, the Duchess ofBalmoral, Lord Backwater, Lord Eustace andLady Clara St. Simon (the younger brotherand sister of the bridegroom), and Lady AliciaWhittington. The whole party proceeded af-terwards to the house of Mr. Aloysius Doran,at Lancaster Gate, where breakfast had beenprepared. It appears that some little troublewas caused by a woman, whose name has notbeen ascertained, who endeavoured to forceher way into the house after the bridal party,alleging that she had some claim upon LordSt. Simon. It was only after a painful andprolonged scene that she was ejected by thebutler and the footman. The bride, who hadfortunately entered the house before this un-pleasant interruption, had sat down to break-fast with the rest, when she complained of asudden indisposition and retired to her room.Her prolonged absence having caused somecomment, her father followed her, but learnedfrom her maid that she had only come up toher chamber for an instant, caught up an ul-ster and bonnet, and hurried down to the pas-sage. One of the footmen declared that he hadseen a lady leave the house thus apparelled,but had refused to credit that it was his mis-tress, believing her to be with the company.On ascertaining that his daughter had disap-peared, Mr. Aloysius Doran, in conjunctionwith the bridegroom, instantly put themselvesin communication with the police, and veryenergetic inquiries are being made, which willprobably result in a speedy clearing up of thisvery singular business. Up to a late hour lastnight, however, nothing had transpired as tothe whereabouts of the missing lady. Thereare rumours of foul play in the matter, andit is said that the police have caused the ar-rest of the woman who had caused the origi-nal disturbance, in the belief that, from jeal-ousy or some other motive, she may have beenconcerned in the strange disappearance of thebride.’ ”“And is that all?”“Only one little item in another of the morningpapers, but it is a suggestive one.”“And it is—”“That Miss Flora Millar, the lady who had causedthe disturbance, has actually been arrested. It appearsthat she was formerly a danseuse at the Allegro, andthat she has known the bridegroom for some years.There are no further particulars, and the whole caseis in your hands now—so far as it has been set forthin the public press.”“And an exceedingly interesting case it appears tobe. I would not have missed it for worlds. But there isa ring at the bell, Watson, and as the clock makes it afew minutes after four, I have no doubt that this willprove to be our noble client. Do not dream of going,Watson, for I very much prefer having a witness, ifonly as a check to my own memory.”“Lord Robert St. Simon,” announced our page-boy,throwing open the door. A gentleman entered, witha pleasant, cultured face, high-nosed and pale, withsomething perhaps of petulance about the mouth,and with the steady, well-opened eye of a man whosepleasant lot it had ever been to command and to beobeyed. His manner was brisk, and yet his generalappearance gave an undue impression of age, for hehad a slight forward stoop and a little bend of theknees as he walked. His hair, too, as he swept offhis very curly-brimmed hat, was grizzled round theedges and thin upon the top. As to his dress, it wascareful to the verge of foppishness, with high col-lar, black frock-coat, white waistcoat, yellow gloves,patent-leather shoes, and light-coloured gaiters. Headvanced slowly into the room, turning his head fromleft to right, and swinging in his right hand the cordwhich held his golden eyeglasses.patent-leather shoes, and light-coloured gaiters. Headvanced slowly into the room, turning his head fromleft to right, and swinging in his right hand the cordwhich held his golden eyeglasses.“Good-day, Lord St. Simon,” said Holmes, risingand bowing. “Pray take the basket-chair. This is myfriend and colleague, Dr. Watson. Draw up a little tothe ﬁre, and we will talk this matter over.”“A most painful matter to me, as you can mostreadily imagine, Mr. Holmes. I have been cut to thequick. I understand that you have already managedseveral delicate cases of this sort, sir, though I pre-sume that they were hardly from the same class ofsociety.”“No, I am descending.”“I beg pardon.”“My last client of the sort was a king.”“Oh, really! I had no idea. And which king?”“The King of Scandinavia.”“What! Had he lost his wife?”123TheAdventure of the Noble Bachelor“You can understand,” said Holmes suavely, “thatI extend to the affairs of my other clients the samesecrecy which I promise to you in yours.”“Of course! Very right! very right! I’m sure I begpardon. As to my own case, I am ready to give youany information which may assist you in forming anopinion.”“Thank you. I have already learned all that is inthe public prints, nothing more. I presume that I maytake it as correct—this article, for example, as to thedisappearance of the bride.”Lord St. Simon glanced over it. “Yes, it is correct,as far as it goes.”“But it needs a great deal of supplementing beforeanyone could offer an opinion. I think that I mayarrive at my facts most directly by questioning you.”“Pray do so.”“When did you ﬁrst meet Miss Hatty Doran?”“In San Francisco, a year ago.”“You were travelling in the States?”“Yes.”“Did you become engaged then?”“No.”“But you were on a friendly footing?”“I was amused by her society, and she could seethat I was amused.”“Her father is very rich?”“He is said to be the richest man on the Paciﬁcslope.”“And how did he make his money?”“In mining. He had nothing a few years ago. Thenhe struck gold, invested it, and came up by leaps andbounds.”“Now, what is your own impression as to theyoung lady’s—your wife’s character?”The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster andstared down into the ﬁre. “You see, Mr. Holmes,”said he, “my wife was twenty before her father be-came a rich man. During that time she ran free in amining camp and wandered through woods or moun-tains, so that her education has come from Naturerather than from the schoolmaster. She is what wecall in England a tomboy, with a strong nature, wildand free, unfettered by any sort of traditions. Sheis impetuous—volcanic, I was about to say. She isswift in making up her mind and fearless in carryingout her resolutions. On the other hand, I would nothave given her the name which I have the honourto bear”—he gave a little stately cough—“had not Ithought her to be at bottom a noble woman. I believethat she is capable of heroic self-sacriﬁce and thatanything dishonourable would be repugnant to her.”“Have you her photograph?”“I brought this with me.” He opened a locket andshowed us the full face of a very lovely woman. Itwas not a photograph but an ivory miniature, andthe artist had brought out the full effect of the lus-trous black hair, the large dark eyes, and the exquisitemouth. Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it. Thenhe closed the locket and handed it back to Lord St.Simon.“The young lady came to London, then, and yourenewed your acquaintance?”“Yes, her father brought her over for this last Lon-don season. I met her several times, became engagedto her, and have now married her.”“She brought, I understand, a considerabledowry?”“A fair dowry. Not more than is usual in myfamily.”“And this, of course, remains to you, since themarriage is a fait accompli? ”“I really have made no inquiries on the subject.”“Very naturally not. Did you see Miss Doran onthe day before the wedding?”“Yes.”“Was she in good spirits?”“Never better. She kept talking of what we shoulddo in our future lives.”“Indeed! That is very interesting. And on themorning of the wedding?”“She was as bright as possible—at least until afterthe ceremony.”“And did you observe any change in her then?”“Well, to tell the truth, I saw then the ﬁrst signsthat I had ever seen that her temper was just a littlesharp. The incident however, was too trivial to relateand can have no possible bearing upon the case.”“Pray let us have it, for all that.”“Oh, it is childish. She dropped her bouquet aswe went towards the vestry. She was passing the frontpew at the time, and it fell over into the pew. Therewas a moment’s delay, but the gentleman in the pewhanded it up to her again, and it did not appear to bethe worse for the fall. Yet when I spoke to her of thewas a moment’s delay, but the gentleman in the pewhanded it up to her again, and it did not appear to bethe worse for the fall. Yet when I spoke to her of thematter, she answered me abruptly; and in the carriage,on our way home, she seemed absurdly agitated overthis triﬂing cause.”124TheAdventure of the Noble Bachelor“Indeed! You say that there was a gentleman inthe pew. Some of the general public were present,then?”“Oh, yes. It is impossible to exclude them whenthe church is open.”“This gentleman was not one of your wife’sfriends?”“No, no; I call him a gentleman by courtesy, buthe was quite a common-looking person. I hardly no-ticed his appearance. But really I think that we arewandering rather far from the point.”“Lady St. Simon, then, returned from the weddingin a less cheerful frame of mind than she had goneto it. What did she do on re-entering her father’shouse?”“I saw her in conversation with her maid.”“And who is her maid?”“Alice is her name. She is an American and camefrom California with her.”“A conﬁdential servant?”“A little too much so. It seemed to me that hermistress allowed her to take great liberties. Still, ofcourse, in America they look upon these things in adifferent way.”“How long did she speak to this Alice?”“Oh, a few minutes. I had something else to thinkof.”“You did not overhear what they said?”“Lady St. Simon said something about ‘jumping aclaim.’ She was accustomed to use slang of the kind.I have no idea what she meant.”“American slang is very expressive sometimes.And what did your wife do when she ﬁnished speak-ing to her maid?”“She walked into the breakfast-room.”“On your arm?”“No, alone. She was very independent in littlematters like that. Then, after we had sat down forten minutes or so, she rose hurriedly, muttered somewords of apology, and left the room. She never cameback.”“But this maid, Alice, as I understand, deposesthat she went to her room, covered her bride’s dresswith a long ulster, put on a bonnet, and went out.”“Quite so. And she was afterwards seen walk-ing into Hyde Park in company with Flora Millar,a woman who is now in custody, and who had al-ready made a disturbance at Mr. Doran’s house thatmorning.”“Ah, yes. I should like a few particulars as to thisyoung lady, and your relations to her.”Lord St. Simon shrugged his shoulders and raisedhis eyebrows. “We have been on a friendly footingfor some years—I may say on a very friendly foot-ing. She used to be at the Allegro. I have not treatedher ungenerously, and she had no just cause of com-plaint against me, but you know what women are, Mr.Holmes. Flora was a dear little thing, but exceedinglyhot-headed and devotedly attached to me. She wroteme dreadful letters when she heard that I was aboutto be married, and, to tell the truth, the reason whyI had the marriage celebrated so quietly was that Ifeared lest there might be a scandal in the church.She came to Mr. Doran’s door just after we returned,and she endeavoured to push her way in, utteringvery abusive expressions towards my wife, and eventhreatening her, but I had foreseen the possibility ofsomething of the sort, and I had two police fellowsthere in private clothes, who soon pushed her outagain. She was quiet when she saw that there was nogood in making a row.”“Did your wife hear all this?”“No, thank goodness, she did not.”“And she was seen walking with this very womanafterwards?”“Yes. That is what Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard,looks upon as so serious. It is thought that Floradecoyed my wife out and laid some terrible trap forher.”“Well, it is a possible supposition.”“You think so, too?”“I did not say a probable one. But you do notyourself look upon this as likely?”“I do not think Flora would hurt a ﬂy.”“Still, jealousy is a strange transformer of charac-ters. Pray what is your own theory as to what tookplace?”“Well, really, I came to seek a theory, not to pro-pound one. I have given you all the facts. Since youask me, however, I may say that it has occurred tome as possible that the excitement of this affair, theconsciousness that she had made so immense a socialstride, had the effect of causing some little nervousdisturbance in my wife.”me as possible that the excitement of this affair, theconsciousness that she had made so immense a socialstride, had the effect of causing some little nervousdisturbance in my wife.”“In short, that she had become suddenly de-ranged?”125TheAdventure of the Noble Bachelor“Well, really, when I consider that she has turnedher back—I will not say upon me, but upon so muchthat many have aspired to without success—I canhardly explain it in any other fashion.”“Well, certainly that is also a conceivable hypoth-esis,” said Holmes, smiling. “And now, Lord St. Si-mon, I think that I have nearly all my data. May I askwhether you were seated at the breakfast-table so thatyou could see out of the window?”“We could see the other side of the road and thePark.”“Quite so. Then I do not think that I need to detainyou longer. I shall communicate with you.”“Should you be fortunate enough to solve thisproblem,” said our client, rising.“I have solved it.”“Eh? What was that?”“I say that I have solved it.”“Where, then, is my wife?”“That is a detail which I shall speedily supply.”Lord St. Simon shook his head. “I am afraid thatit will take wiser heads than yours or mine,” he re-marked, and bowing in a stately, old-fashioned man-ner he departed.“It is very good of Lord St. Simon to honour myhead by putting it on a level with his own,” saidSherlock Holmes, laughing. “I think that I shall havea whisky and soda and a cigar after all this cross-questioning. I had formed my conclusions as to thecase before our client came into the room.”“My dear Holmes!”“I have notes of several similar cases, though none,as I remarked before, which were quite as prompt.My whole examination served to turn my conjectureinto a certainty. Circumstantial evidence is occasion-ally very convincing, as when you ﬁnd a trout in themilk, to quote Thoreau’s example.”“But I have heard all that you have heard.”“Without, however, the knowledge of pre-existingcases which serves me so well. There was a parallelinstance in Aberdeen some years back, and somethingon very much the same lines at Munich the year afterthe Franco-Prussian War. It is one of these cases—but,hullo, here is Lestrade! Good-afternoon, Lestrade!You will ﬁnd an extra tumbler upon the sideboard,and there are cigars in the box.”The ofﬁcial detective was attired in a pea-jacketand cravat, which gave him a decidedly nautical ap-pearance, and he carried a black canvas bag in hishand. With a short greeting he seated himself and litthe cigar which had been offered to him.“What’s up, then?” asked Holmes with a twinklein his eye. “You look dissatisﬁed.”“And I feel dissatisﬁed. It is this infernal St. Simonmarriage case. I can make neither head nor tail of thebusiness.”“Really! You surprise me.”“Who ever heard of such a mixed affair? Everyclue seems to slip through my ﬁngers. I have been atwork upon it all day.”“And very wet it seems to have made you,” saidHolmes laying his hand upon the arm of the pea-jacket.“Yes, I have been dragging the Serpentine.”“In heaven’s name, what for?”“In search of the body of Lady St. Simon.”Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair andlaughed heartily.“Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Squarefountain?” he asked.“Why? What do you mean?”“Because you have just as good a chance of ﬁndingthis lady in the one as in the other.”Lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion.“I suppose you know all about it,” he snarled.“Well, I have only just heard the facts, but mymind is made up.”“Oh, indeed! Then you think that the Serpentineplays no part in the matter?”“I think it very unlikely.”“Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it isthat we found this in it?” He opened his bag as hespoke, and tumbled onto the ﬂoor a wedding-dress ofwatered silk, a pair of white satin shoes and a bride’swreath and veil, all discoloured and soaked in water.“There,” said he, putting a new wedding-ring uponthe top of the pile. “There is a little nut for you tocrack, Master Holmes.”“Oh, indeed!” said my friend, blowing blue ringsinto the air. “You dragged them from the Serpentine?”“No. They were found ﬂoating near the marginby a park-keeper. They have been identiﬁed as her“Oh, indeed!” said my friend, blowing blue ringsinto the air. “You dragged them from the Serpentine?”“No. They were found ﬂoating near the marginby a park-keeper. They have been identiﬁed as herclothes, and it seemed to me that if the clothes werethere the body would not be far off.”“By the same brilliant reasoning, every man’s bodyis to be found in the neighbourhood of his wardrobe.And pray what did you hope to arrive at throughthis?”126TheAdventure of the Noble Bachelor“At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in thedisappearance.”“I am afraid that you will ﬁnd it difﬁcult.”“Are you, indeed, now?” cried Lestrade with somebitterness. “I am afraid, Holmes, that you are not verypractical with your deductions and your inferences.You have made two blunders in as many minutes.This dress does implicate Miss Flora Millar.”“And how?”“In the dress is a pocket. In the pocket is a card-case. In the card-case is a note. And here is the verynote.” He slapped it down upon the table in front ofhim. “Listen to this:“ ‘You will see me when all is ready.Come at once.— “ ‘F.H.M.’Now my theory all along has been that Lady St.Simon was decoyed away by Flora Millar, and thatshe, with confederates, no doubt, was responsible forher disappearance. Here, signed with her initials, isthe very note which was no doubt quietly slippedinto her hand at the door and which lured her withintheir reach.”“Very good, Lestrade,” said Holmes, laughing.“You really are very ﬁne indeed. Let me see it.” Hetook up the paper in a listless way, but his attentioninstantly became riveted, and he gave a little cry ofsatisfaction. “This is indeed important,” said he.“Ha! you ﬁnd it so?”“Extremely so. I congratulate you warmly.”Lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his headto look. “Why,” he shrieked, “you’re looking at thewrong side!”“On the contrary, this is the right side.”“The right side? You’re mad! Here is the notewritten in pencil over here.”“And over here is what appears to be the fragmentof a hotel bill, which interests me deeply.”“There’s nothing in it. I looked at it before,” saidLestrade.“ ‘Oct. 4th, rooms 8s., breakfast 2s.6d.,cocktail 1s., lunch 2s.6d., glass sherry, 8d.’I see nothing in that.”“Very likely not. It is most important, all the same.As to the note, it is important also, or at least theinitials are, so I congratulate you again.”“I’ve wasted time enough,” said Lestrade, rising.“I believe in hard work and not in sitting by the ﬁrespinning ﬁne theories. Good-day, Mr. Holmes, andwe shall see which gets to the bottom of the matterﬁrst.” He gathered up the garments, thrust them intothe bag, and made for the door.“Just one hint to you, Lestrade,” drawled Holmesbefore his rival vanished; “I will tell you the true so-lution of the matter. Lady St. Simon is a myth. Thereis not, and there never has been, any such person.”Lestrade looked sadly at my companion. Then heturned to me, tapped his forehead three times, shookhis head solemnly, and hurried away.He had hardly shut the door behind him whenHolmes rose to put on his overcoat. “There is some-thing in what the fellow says about outdoor work,”he remarked, “so I think, Watson, that I must leaveyou to your papers for a little.”It was after ﬁve o’clock when Sherlock Holmes leftme, but I had no time to be lonely, for within an hourthere arrived a confectioner’s man with a very largeﬂat box. This he unpacked with the help of a youthwhom he had brought with him, and presently, tomy very great astonishment, a quite epicurean littlecold supper began to be laid out upon our humblelodging-house mahogany. There were a couple ofbrace of cold woodcock, a pheasant, a pˆat´e de foie graspie with a group of ancient and cobwebby bottles.Having laid out all these luxuries, my two visitorsvanished away, like the genii of the Arabian Nights,with no explanation save that the things had beenpaid for and were ordered to this address.Just before nine o’clock Sherlock Holmes steppedbriskly into the room. His features were gravely set,but there was a light in his eye which made me thinkthat he had not been disappointed in his conclusions.“They have laid the supper, then,” he said, rubbinghis hands.“You seem to expect company. They have laid forﬁve.”“Yes, I fancy we may have some company drop-ping in,” said he. “I am surprised that Lord St. Simonhis hands.“You seem to expect company. They have laid forﬁve.”“Yes, I fancy we may have some company drop-ping in,” said he. “I am surprised that Lord St. Simonhas not already arrived. Ha! I fancy that I hear hisstep now upon the stairs.”It was indeed our visitor of the afternoon whocame bustling in, dangling his glasses more vigor-ously than ever, and with a very perturbed expressionupon his aristocratic features.127TheAdventure of the Noble Bachelor“My messenger reached you, then?” askedHolmes.“Yes, and I confess that the contents startled mebeyond measure. Have you good authority for whatyou say?”“The best possible.”Lord St. Simon sank into a chair and passed hishand over his forehead.“What will the Duke say,” he murmured, “whenhe hears that one of the family has been subjected tosuch humiliation?”“It is the purest accident. I cannot allow that thereis any humiliation.”“Ah, you look on these things from another stand-point.”“I fail to see that anyone is to blame. I can hardlysee how the lady could have acted otherwise, thoughher abrupt method of doing it was undoubtedly tobe regretted. Having no mother, she had no one toadvise her at such a crisis.”“It was a slight, sir, a public slight,” said Lord St.Simon, tapping his ﬁngers upon the table.“You must make allowance for this poor girl,placed in so unprecedented a position.”“I will make no allowance. I am very angry indeed,and I have been shamefully used.”“I think that I heard a ring,” said Holmes. “Yes,there are steps on the landing. If I cannot persuadeyou to take a lenient view of the matter, Lord St. Si-mon, I have brought an advocate here who may bemore successful.” He opened the door and usheredin a lady and gentleman. “Lord St. Simon,” said he“allow me to introduce you to Mr. and Mrs. FrancisHay Moulton. The lady, I think, you have alreadymet.”At the sight of these newcomers our client hadsprung from his seat and stood very erect, with hiseyes cast down and his hand thrust into the breastof his frock-coat, a picture of offended dignity. Thelady had taken a quick step forward and had heldout her hand to him, but he still refused to raise hiseyes. It was as well for his resolution, perhaps, for herpleading face was one which it was hard to resist.“You’re angry, Robert,” said she. “Well, I guessyou have every cause to be.”“Pray make no apology to me,” said Lord St. Si-mon bitterly.“Oh, yes, I know that I have treated you real badand that I should have spoken to you before I went;but I was kind of rattled, and from the time when Isaw Frank here again I just didn’t know what I wasdoing or saying. I only wonder I didn’t fall down anddo a faint right there before the altar.”“Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friendand me to leave the room while you explain this mat-ter?”“If I may give an opinion,” remarked the strangegentleman, “we’ve had just a little too much secrecyover this business already. For my part, I should likeall Europe and America to hear the rights of it.” Hewas a small, wiry, sunburnt man, clean-shaven, witha sharp face and alert manner.“Then I’ll tell our story right away,” said the lady.“Frank here and I met in ’ 84, in McQuire’s camp, nearthe Rockies, where pa was working a claim. We wereengaged to each other, Frank and I; but then one dayfather struck a rich pocket and made a pile, whilepoor Frank here had a claim that petered out andcame to nothing. The richer pa grew the poorer wasFrank; so at last pa wouldn’t hear of our engagementlasting any longer, and he took me away to ’Frisco.Frank wouldn’t throw up his hand, though; so he fol-lowed me there, and he saw me without pa knowinganything about it. It would only have made him madto know, so we just ﬁxed it all up for ourselves. Franksaid that he would go and make his pile, too, andnever come back to claim me until he had as muchas pa. So then I promised to wait for him to the endof time and pledged myself not to marry anyone elsewhile he lived. ‘Why shouldn’t we be married rightaway, then,’ said he, ‘and then I will feel sure of you;and I won’t claim to be your husband until I comeback?’ Well, we talked it over, and he had ﬁxed it allup so nicely, with a clergyman all ready in waiting,that we just did it right there; and then Frank wentoff to seek his fortune, and I went back to pa.up so nicely, with a clergyman all ready in waiting,that we just did it right there; and then Frank wentoff to seek his fortune, and I went back to pa.“The next I heard of Frank was that he was inMontana, and then he went prospecting in Arizona,and then I heard of him from New Mexico. After thatcame a long newspaper story about how a miners’camp had been attacked by Apache Indians, and therewas my Frank’s name among the killed. I fainteddead away, and I was very sick for months after. Pathought I had a decline and took me to half the doc-tors in ’Frisco. Not a word of news came for a yearand more, so that I never doubted that Frank wasreally dead. Then Lord St. Simon came to ’Frisco, andwe came to London, and a marriage was arranged,and pa was very pleased, but I felt all the time thatno man on this earth would ever take the place in myheart that had been given to my poor Frank.128TheAdventure of the Noble Bachelor“Still, if I had married Lord St. Simon, of courseI’d have done my duty by him. We can’t commandour love, but we can our actions. I went to the altarwith him with the intention to make him just as gooda wife as it was in me to be. But you may imaginewhat I felt when, just as I came to the altar rails, Iglanced back and saw Frank standing and looking atme out of the ﬁrst pew. I thought it was his ghost atﬁrst; but when I looked again there he was still, witha kind of question in his eyes, as if to ask me whetherI were glad or sorry to see him. I wonder I didn’tdrop. I know that everything was turning round, andthe words of the clergyman were just like the buzz ofa bee in my ear. I didn’t know what to do. ShouldI stop the service and make a scene in the church? Iglanced at him again, and he seemed to know whatI was thinking, for he raised his ﬁnger to his lips totell me to be still. Then I saw him scribble on a pieceof paper, and I knew that he was writing me a note.As I passed his pew on the way out I dropped mybouquet over to him, and he slipped the note into myhand when he returned me the ﬂowers. It was only aline asking me to join him when he made the sign tome to do so. Of course I never doubted for a momentthat my ﬁrst duty was now to him, and I determinedto do just whatever he might direct.“When I got back I told my maid, who had knownhim in California, and had always been his friend. Iordered her to say nothing, but to get a few thingspacked and my ulster ready. I know I ought to havespoken to Lord St. Simon, but it was dreadful hardbefore his mother and all those great people. I justmade up my mind to run away and explain after-wards. I hadn’t been at the table ten minutes beforeI saw Frank out of the window at the other side ofthe road. He beckoned to me and then began walkinginto the Park. I slipped out, put on my things, andfollowed him. Some woman came talking somethingor other about Lord St. Simon to me—seemed to mefrom the little I heard as if he had a little secret ofhis own before marriage also—but I managed to getaway from her and soon overtook Frank. We got intoa cab together, and away we drove to some lodgingshe had taken in Gordon Square, and that was my truewedding after all those years of waiting. Frank hadbeen a prisoner among the Apaches, had escaped,came on to ’Frisco, found that I had given him up fordead and had gone to England, followed me there,and had come upon me at last on the very morningof my second wedding.”“I saw it in a paper,” explained the American. “Itgave the name and the church but not where the ladylived.”“Then we had a talk as to what we should do, andFrank was all for openness, but I was so ashamedof it all that I felt as if I should like to vanish awayand never see any of them again—just sending a lineto pa, perhaps, to show him that I was alive. It wasawful to me to think of all those lords and ladies sit-ting round that breakfast-table and waiting for me tocome back. So Frank took my wedding-clothes andthings and made a bundle of them, so that I shouldnot be traced, and dropped them away somewherewhere no one could ﬁnd them. It is likely that weshould have gone on to Paris to-morrow, only thatthis good gentleman, Mr. Holmes, came round to usthis evening, though how he found us is more than Ican think, and he showed us very clearly and kindlythat I was wrong and that Frank was right, and thatwe should be putting ourselves in the wrong if wewere so secret. Then he offered to give us a chanceof talking to Lord St. Simon alone, and so we cameright away round to his rooms at once. Now, Robert,you have heard it all, and I am very sorry if I havegiven you pain, and I hope that you do not think verymeanly of me.”Lord St. Simon had by no means relaxed his rigidattitude, but had listened with a frowning brow anda compressed lip to this long narrative.meanly of me.”Lord St. Simon had by no means relaxed his rigidattitude, but had listened with a frowning brow anda compressed lip to this long narrative.“Excuse me,” he said, “but it is not my customto discuss my most intimate personal affairs in thispublic manner.”“Then you won’t forgive me? You won’t shakehands before I go?”“Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure.”He put out his hand and coldly grasped that whichshe extended to him.“I had hoped,” suggested Holmes, “that youwould have joined us in a friendly supper.”“I think that there you ask a little too much,” re-sponded his Lordship. “I may be forced to acquiescein these recent developments, but I can hardly be ex-pected to make merry over them. I think that withyour permission I will now wish you all a very good-night.” He included us all in a sweeping bow andstalked out of the room.“Then I trust that you at least will honour me withyour company,” said Sherlock Holmes. “It is always ajoy to meet an American, Mr. Moulton, for I am oneof those who believe that the folly of a monarch andthe blundering of a minister in far-gone years will notprevent our children from being some day citizensof the same world-wide country under a ﬂag which129TheAdventure of the Noble Bachelorshall be a quartering of the Union Jack with the Starsand Stripes.”“The case has been an interesting one,” remarkedHolmes when our visitors had left us, “because itserves to show very clearly how simple the explana-tion may be of an affair which at ﬁrst sight seems to bealmost inexplicable. Nothing could be more naturalthan the sequence of events as narrated by this lady,and nothing stranger than the result when viewed,for instance, by Mr. Lestrade of Scotland Yard.”“You were not yourself at fault at all, then?”“From the ﬁrst, two facts were very obvious tome, the one that the lady had been quite willing toundergo the wedding ceremony, the other that shehad repented of it within a few minutes of returninghome. Obviously something had occurred during themorning, then, to cause her to change her mind. Whatcould that something be? She could not have spokento anyone when she was out, for she had been in thecompany of the bridegroom. Had she seen someone,then? If she had, it must be someone from Americabecause she had spent so short a time in this countrythat she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquireso deep an inﬂuence over her that the mere sight ofhim would induce her to change her plans so com-pletely. You see we have already arrived, by a processof exclusion, at the idea that she might have seen anAmerican. Then who could this American be, andwhy should he possess so much inﬂuence over her?It might be a lover; it might be a husband. Her youngwomanhood had, I knew, been spent in rough scenesand under strange conditions. So far I had got beforeI ever heard Lord St. Simon’s narrative. When he toldus of a man in a pew, of the change in the bride’smanner, of so transparent a device for obtaining anote as the dropping of a bouquet, of her resort to herconﬁdential maid, and of her very signiﬁcant allusionto claim-jumping—which in miners’ parlance meanstaking possession of that which another person has aprior claim to—the whole situation became absolutelyclear. She had gone off with a man, and the manwas either a lover or was a previous husband—thechances being in favour of the latter.”“And how in the world did you ﬁnd them?”“It might have been difﬁcult, but friend Lestradeheld information in his hands the value of which hedid not himself know. The initials were, of course, ofthe highest importance, but more valuable still was itto know that within a week he had settled his bill atone of the most select London hotels.”“How did you deduce the select?”“By the select prices. Eight shillings for a bed andeightpence for a glass of sherry pointed to one of themost expensive hotels. There are not many in Londonwhich charge at that rate. In the second one which Ivisited in Northumberland Avenue, I learned by aninspection of the book that Francis H. Moulton, anAmerican gentleman, had left only the day before,and on looking over the entries against him, I cameupon the very items which I had seen in the duplicatebill. His letters were to be forwarded to 226GordonSquare; so thither I travelled, and being fortunateenough to ﬁnd the loving couple at home, I venturedto give them some paternal advice and to point outto them that it would be better in every way that theyshould make their position a little clearer both to thegeneral public and to Lord St. Simon in particular.I invited them to meet him here, and, as you see, Imade him keep the appointment.”“But with no very good result,” I remarked. “Hisconduct was certainly not very gracious.”“Ah, Watson,” said Holmes, smiling, “perhapsyou would not be very gracious either, if, after all thetrouble of wooing and wedding, you found yourselfdeprived in an instant of wife and of fortune. I thinkthat we may judge Lord St. Simon very mercifullyand thank our stars that we are never likely to ﬁndourselves in the same position. Draw your chair upand hand me my violin, for the only problem wethat we may judge Lord St. Simon very mercifullyand thank our stars that we are never likely to ﬁndourselves in the same position. Draw your chair upand hand me my violin, for the only problem wehave still to solve is how to while away these bleakautumnal evenings.”130The Adventure of the Beryl CoronetTheAdventure of the Beryl CoronetHolmes ,”said Ias I stood one morning inour bow-window looking down the street,“here is a madman coming along. It seemsrather sad that his relatives should allowhim to come out alone.”My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stoodwith his hands in the pockets of his dressing-gown,looking over my shoulder. It was a bright, crisp Febru-ary morning, and the snow of the day before still laydeep upon the ground, shimmering brightly in thewintry sun. Down the centre of Baker Street it hadbeen ploughed into a brown crumbly band by thetrafﬁc, but at either side and on the heaped-up edgesof the foot-paths it still lay as white as when it fell.The grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped,but was still dangerously slippery, so that there werefewer passengers than usual. Indeed, from the direc-tion of the Metropolitan Station no one was comingsave the single gentleman whose eccentric conducthad drawn my attention.He was a man of about ﬁfty, tall, portly, and im-posing, with a massive, strongly marked face and acommanding ﬁgure. He was dressed in a sombreyet rich style, in black frock-coat, shining hat, neatbrown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers. Yethis actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity ofhis dress and features, for he was running hard, withoccasional little springs, such as a weary man giveswho is little accustomed to set any tax upon his legs.As he ran he jerked his hands up and down, wag-gled his head, and writhed his face into the mostextraordinary contortions.“What on earth can be the matter with him?”I asked. “He is looking up at the numbers of thehouses.”“I believe that he is coming here,” said Holmes,rubbing his hands.“Here?”“Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult meprofessionally. I think that I recognise the symptoms.Ha! did I not tell you?” As he spoke, the man, puff-ing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulled atour bell until the whole house resounded with theclanging.A few moments later he was in our room, stillpufﬁng, still gesticulating, but with so ﬁxed a lookof grief and despair in his eyes that our smiles wereturned in an instant to horror and pity. For a whilehe could not get his words out, but swayed his bodyand plucked at his hair like one who has been drivento the extreme limits of his reason. Then, suddenlyspringing to his feet, he beat his head against the wallwith such force that we both rushed upon him andtore him away to the centre of the room. SherlockHolmes pushed him down into the easy-chair and,sitting beside him, patted his hand and chatted withhim in the easy, soothing tones which he knew so wellhow to employ.“You have come to me to tell your story, have younot?” said he. “You are fatigued with your haste.Pray wait until you have recovered yourself, and thenI shall be most happy to look into any little problemwhich you may submit to me.”The man sat for a minute or more with a heavingchest, ﬁghting against his emotion. Then he passedhis handkerchief over his brow, set his lips tight, andturned his face towards us.“No doubt you think me mad?” said he.“I see that you have had some great trouble,” re-sponded Holmes.“God knows I have!—a trouble which is enoughto unseat my reason, so sudden and so terrible is it.Public disgrace I might have faced, although I ama man whose character has never yet borne a stain.Private afﬂiction also is the lot of every man; but thetwo coming together, and in so frightful a form, havebeen enough to shake my very soul. Besides, it isnot I alone. The very noblest in the land may sufferunless some way be found out of this horrible affair.”“Pray compose yourself, sir,” said Holmes, “andlet me have a clear account of who you are and whatit is that has befallen you.”“My name,” answered our visitor, “is probablyfamiliar to your ears. I am Alexander Holder, of thebanking ﬁrm of Holder & Stevenson, of ThreadneedleStreet.”it is that has befallen you.”“My name,” answered our visitor, “is probablyfamiliar to your ears. I am Alexander Holder, of thebanking ﬁrm of Holder & Stevenson, of ThreadneedleStreet.”The name was indeed well known to us as be-longing to the senior partner in the second largestprivate banking concern in the City of London. Whatcould have happened, then, to bring one of the fore-most citizens of London to this most pitiable pass?We waited, all curiosity, until with another effort hebraced himself to tell his story.“I feel that time is of value,” said he; “that is whyI hastened here when the police inspector suggestedthat I should secure your co-operation. I came toBaker Street by the Underground and hurried fromthere on foot, for the cabs go slowly through this snow.That is why I was so out of breath, for I am a manwho takes very little exercise. I feel better now, andI will put the facts before you as shortly and yet asclearly as I can.133TheAdventure of the Beryl Coronet“It is, of course, well known to you that in a suc-cessful banking business as much depends upon ourbeing able to ﬁnd remunerative investments for ourfunds as upon our increasing our connection and thenumber of our depositors. One of our most lucra-tive means of laying out money is in the shape ofloans, where the security is unimpeachable. We havedone a good deal in this direction during the last fewyears, and there are many noble families to whom wehave advanced large sums upon the security of theirpictures, libraries, or plate.“Yesterday morning I was seated in my ofﬁce atthe bank when a card was brought in to me by oneof the clerks. I started when I saw the name, for itwas that of none other than—well, perhaps even toyou I had better say no more than that it was a namewhich is a household word all over the earth—one ofthe highest, noblest, most exalted names in England.I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted,when he entered, to say so, but he plunged at onceinto business with the air of a man who wishes tohurry quickly through a disagreeable task.“ ‘Mr. Holder,’ said he, ‘I have been informed thatyou are in the habit of advancing money.’“ ‘The ﬁrm does so when the security is good.’ Ianswered.“ ‘It is absolutely essential to me,’ said he, ‘that Ishould have £50,000at once. I could, of course, bor-row so triﬂing a sum ten times over from my friends,but I much prefer to make it a matter of business andto carry out that business myself. In my position youcan readily understand that it is unwise to place one’sself under obligations.’“ ‘For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum?’I asked.“ ‘Next Monday I have a large sum due to me, andI shall then most certainly repay what you advance,with whatever interest you think it right to charge.But it is very essential to me that the money shouldbe paid at once.’“ ‘I should be happy to advance it without furtherparley from my own private purse,’ said I, ‘were itnot that the strain would be rather more than it couldbear. If, on the other hand, I am to do it in the nameof the ﬁrm, then in justice to my partner I must insistthat, even in your case, every businesslike precautionshould be taken.’“ ‘I should much prefer to have it so,’ said he, rais-ing up a square, black morocco case which he hadlaid beside his chair. ‘You have doubtless heard of theBeryl Coronet?’“ ‘One of the most precious public possessions ofthe empire,’ said I.“ ‘Precisely.’ He opened the case, and there, imbed-ded in soft, ﬂesh-coloured velvet, lay the magniﬁcentpiece of jewellery which he had named. ‘There arethirty-nine enormous beryls,’ said he, ‘and the priceof the gold chasing is incalculable. The lowest esti-mate would put the worth of the coronet at doublethe sum which I have asked. I am prepared to leave itwith you as my security.’“I took the precious case into my hands andlooked in some perplexity from it to my illustriousclient.“ ‘You doubt its value?’ he asked.“ ‘Not at all. I only doubt—’“ ‘The propriety of my leaving it. You may setyour mind at rest about that. I should not dream ofdoing so were it not absolutely certain that I shouldbe able in four days to reclaim it. It is a pure matterof form. Is the security sufﬁcient?’“ ‘Ample.’“ ‘You understand, Mr. Holder, that I am givingyou a strong proof of the conﬁdence which I have inyou, founded upon all that I have heard of you. I relyupon you not only to be discreet and to refrain fromall gossip upon the matter but, above all, to preservethis coronet with every possible precaution becauseI need not say that a great public scandal would becaused if any harm were to befall it. Any injury to itwould be almost as serious as its complete loss, forthere are no beryls in the world to match these, and itwould be impossible to replace them. I leave it withyou, however, with every conﬁdence, and I shall callfor it in person on Monday morning.’there are no beryls in the world to match these, and itwould be impossible to replace them. I leave it withyou, however, with every conﬁdence, and I shall callfor it in person on Monday morning.’“Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I saidno more but, calling for my cashier, I ordered him topay over ﬁfty £1000 notes. When I was alone oncemore, however, with the precious case lying uponthe table in front of me, I could not but think withsome misgivings of the immense responsibility whichit entailed upon me. There could be no doubt that, asit was a national possession, a horrible scandal wouldensue if any misfortune should occur to it. I alreadyregretted having ever consented to take charge of it.However, it was too late to alter the matter now, so Ilocked it up in my private safe and turned once moreto my work.“When evening came I felt that it would be animprudence to leave so precious a thing in the ofﬁcebehind me. Bankers’ safes had been forced beforenow, and why should not mine be? If so, how terrible134TheAdventure of the Beryl Coronetwould be the position in which I should ﬁnd myself!I determined, therefore, that for the next few days Iwould always carry the case backward and forwardwith me, so that it might never be really out of myreach. With this intention, I called a cab and drove outto my house at Streatham, carrying the jewel with me.I did not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairsand locked it in the bureau of my dressing-room.“And now a word as to my household, Mr.Holmes, for I wish you to thoroughly understandthe situation. My groom and my page sleep out of thehouse, and may be set aside altogether. I have threemaid-servants who have been with me a number ofyears and whose absolute reliability is quite above sus-picion. Another, Lucy Parr, the second waiting-maid,has only been in my service a few months. She camewith an excellent character, however, and has alwaysgiven me satisfaction. She is a very pretty girl and hasattracted admirers who have occasionally hung aboutthe place. That is the only drawback which we havefound to her, but we believe her to be a thoroughlygood girl in every way.“So much for the servants. My family itself is sosmall that it will not take me long to describe it. I ama widower and have an only son, Arthur. He has beena disappointment to me, Mr. Holmes—a grievous dis-appointment. I have no doubt that I am myself toblame. People tell me that I have spoiled him. Verylikely I have. When my dear wife died I felt that hewas all I had to love. I could not bear to see the smilefade even for a moment from his face. I have neverdenied him a wish. Perhaps it would have been betterfor both of us had I been sterner, but I meant it forthe best.“It was naturally my intention that he should suc-ceed me in my business, but he was not of a businessturn. He was wild, wayward, and, to speak the truth,I could not trust him in the handling of large sums ofmoney. When he was young he became a member ofan aristocratic club, and there, having charming man-ners, he was soon the intimate of a number of menwith long purses and expensive habits. He learnedto play heavily at cards and to squander money onthe turf, until he had again and again to come to meand implore me to give him an advance upon his al-lowance, that he might settle his debts of honour. Hetried more than once to break away from the danger-ous company which he was keeping, but each timethe inﬂuence of his friend, Sir George Burnwell, wasenough to draw him back again.“And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a manas Sir George Burnwell should gain an inﬂuence overhim, for he has frequently brought him to my house,and I have found myself that I could hardly resist thefascination of his manner. He is older than Arthur, aman of the world to his ﬁnger-tips, one who had beeneverywhere, seen everything, a brilliant talker, anda man of great personal beauty. Yet when I think ofhim in cold blood, far away from the glamour of hispresence, I am convinced from his cynical speech andthe look which I have caught in his eyes that he is onewho should be deeply distrusted. So I think, and so,too, thinks my little Mary, who has a woman’s quickinsight into character.“And now there is only she to be described. Sheis my niece; but when my brother died ﬁve years agoand left her alone in the world I adopted her, andhave looked upon her ever since as my daughter. Sheis a sunbeam in my house—sweet, loving, beautiful,a wonderful manager and housekeeper, yet as tenderand quiet and gentle as a woman could be. She is myright hand. I do not know what I could do withouther. In only one matter has she ever gone against mywishes. Twice my boy has asked her to marry him, forhe loves her devotedly, but each time she has refusedhim. I think that if anyone could have drawn him intothe right path it would have been she, and that hismarriage might have changed his whole life; but now,him. I think that if anyone could have drawn him intothe right path it would have been she, and that hismarriage might have changed his whole life; but now,alas! it is too late—forever too late!“Now, Mr. Holmes, you know the people wholive under my roof, and I shall continue with mymiserable story.“When we were taking coffee in the drawing-roomthat night after dinner, I told Arthur and Mary myexperience, and of the precious treasure which wehad under our roof, suppressing only the name ofmy client. Lucy Parr, who had brought in the coffee,had, I am sure, left the room; but I cannot swear thatthe door was closed. Mary and Arthur were muchinterested and wished to see the famous coronet, butI thought it better not to disturb it.“ ‘Where have you put it?’ asked Arthur.“ ‘In my own bureau.’“ ‘Well, I hope to goodness the house won’t beburgled during the night.’ said he.“ ‘It is locked up,’ I answered.“ ‘Oh, any old key will ﬁt that bureau. When I wasa youngster I have opened it myself with the key ofthe box-room cupboard.’“He often had a wild way of talking, so that Ithought little of what he said. He followed me to myroom, however, that night with a very grave face.“ ‘Look here, dad,’ said he with his eyes cast down,‘can you let me have £200?’135TheAdventure of the Beryl Coronet“ ‘No, I cannot!’ I answered sharply. ‘I have beenfar too generous with you in money matters.’“ ‘You have been very kind,’ said he, ‘but I musthave this money, or else I can never show my faceinside the club again.’“ ‘And a very good thing, too!’ I cried.“ ‘Yes, but you would not have me leave it a dis-honoured man,’ said he. ‘I could not bear the disgrace.I must raise the money in some way, and if you willnot let me have it, then I must try other means.’“I was very angry, for this was the third demandduring the month. ‘You shall not have a farthing fromme,’ I cried, on which he bowed and left the roomwithout another word.“When he was gone I unlocked my bureau, madesure that my treasure was safe, and locked it again.Then I started to go round the house to see that allwas secure—a duty which I usually leave to Marybut which I thought it well to perform myself thatnight. As I came down the stairs I saw Mary herselfat the side window of the hall, which she closed andfastened as I approached.“ ‘Tell me, dad,’ said she, looking, I thought, alittle disturbed, ‘did you give Lucy, the maid, leave togo out to-night?’“ ‘Certainly not.’“ ‘She came in just now by the back door. I haveno doubt that she has only been to the side gate to seesomeone, but I think that it is hardly safe and shouldbe stopped.’“ ‘You must speak to her in the morning, or I willif you prefer it. Are you sure that everything is fas-tened?’“ ‘Quite sure, dad.’“ ‘Then, good-night.’ I kissed her and went up tomy bedroom again, where I was soon asleep.“I am endeavouring to tell you everything, Mr.Holmes, which may have any bearing upon the case,but I beg that you will question me upon any pointwhich I do not make clear.”“On the contrary, your statement is singularly lu-cid.”“I come to a part of my story now in which Ishould wish to be particularly so. I am not a veryheavy sleeper, and the anxiety in my mind tended, nodoubt, to make me even less so than usual. About twoin the morning, then, I was awakened by some soundin the house. It had ceased ere I was wide awake,but it had left an impression behind it as though awindow had gently closed somewhere. I lay listeningwith all my ears. Suddenly, to my horror, there was adistinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the nextroom. I slipped out of bed, all palpitating with fear,and peeped round the corner of my dressing-roomdoor.“ ‘Arthur!’ I screamed, ‘you villain! you thief!How dare you touch that coronet?’“The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my un-happy boy, dressed only in his shirt and trousers, wasstanding beside the light, holding the coronet in hishands. He appeared to be wrenching at it, or bendingit with all his strength. At my cry he dropped it fromhis grasp and turned as pale as death. I snatched itup and examined it. One of the gold corners, withthree of the beryls in it, was missing.“ ‘You blackguard!’ I shouted, beside myself withrage. ‘You have destroyed it! You have dishonouredme forever! Where are the jewels which you havestolen?’“ ‘Stolen!’ he cried.“ ‘Yes, thief!’ I roared, shaking him by the shoul-der.“ ‘There are none missing. There cannot be anymissing,’ said he.“ ‘There are three missing. And you know wherethey are. Must I call you a liar as well as a thief? DidI not see you trying to tear off another piece?’“ ‘You have called me names enough,’ said he, ‘Iwill not stand it any longer. I shall not say anotherword about this business, since you have chosen toinsult me. I will leave your house in the morning andmake my own way in the world.’“ ‘You shall leave it in the hands of the police!’ Icried half-mad with grief and rage. ‘I shall have thismatter probed to the bottom.’“ ‘You shall learn nothing from me,’ said he with apassion such as I should not have thought was in hisnature. ‘If you choose to call the police, let the policeﬁnd what they can.’“ ‘You shall learn nothing from me,’ said he with apassion such as I should not have thought was in hisnature. ‘If you choose to call the police, let the policeﬁnd what they can.’“By this time the whole house was astir, for I hadraised my voice in my anger. Mary was the ﬁrst torush into my room, and, at the sight of the coronetand of Arthur’s face, she read the whole story and,with a scream, fell down senseless on the ground. Isent the house-maid for the police and put the inves-tigation into their hands at once. When the inspec-tor and a constable entered the house, Arthur, whohad stood sullenly with his arms folded, asked mewhether it was my intention to charge him with theft.I answered that it had ceased to be a private matter,but had become a public one, since the ruined coronet136TheAdventure of the Beryl Coronetwas national property. I was determined that the lawshould have its way in everything.“ ‘At least,’ said he, ‘you will not have me arrestedat once. It would be to your advantage as well asmine if I might leave the house for ﬁve minutes.’“ ‘That you may get away, or perhaps that youmay conceal what you have stolen,’ said I. And then,realising the dreadful position in which I was placed,I implored him to remember that not only my honourbut that of one who was far greater than I was atstake; and that he threatened to raise a scandal whichwould convulse the nation. He might avert it all if hewould but tell me what he had done with the threemissing stones.“ ‘You may as well face the matter,’ said I; ‘youhave been caught in the act, and no confession couldmake your guilt more heinous. If you but make suchreparation as is in your power, by telling us where theberyls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.’“ ‘Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,’he answered, turning away from me with a sneer. Isaw that he was too hardened for any words of mineto inﬂuence him. There was but one way for it. Icalled in the inspector and gave him into custody. Asearch was made at once not only of his person butof his room and of every portion of the house wherehe could possibly have concealed the gems; but notrace of them could be found, nor would the wretchedboy open his mouth for all our persuasions and ourthreats. This morning he was removed to a cell, andI, after going through all the police formalities, havehurried round to you to implore you to use your skillin unravelling the matter. The police have openly con-fessed that they can at present make nothing of it. Youmay go to any expense which you think necessary.I have already offered a reward of £1000 . My God,what shall I do! I have lost my honour, my gems, andmy son in one night. Oh, what shall I do!”He put a hand on either side of his head androcked himself to and fro, droning to himself like achild whose grief has got beyond words.Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes,with his brows knitted and his eyes ﬁxed upon theﬁre.“Do you receive much company?” he asked.“None save my partner with his family and anoccasional friend of Arthur’s. Sir George Burnwellhas been several times lately. No one else, I think.”“Do you go out much in society?”“Arthur does. Mary and I stay at home. We nei-ther of us care for it.”“That is unusual in a young girl.”“She is of a quiet nature. Besides, she is not sovery young. She is four-and-twenty.”“This matter, from what you say, seems to havebeen a shock to her also.”“Terrible! She is even more affected than I.”“You have neither of you any doubt as to yourson’s guilt?”“How can we have when I saw him with my owneyes with the coronet in his hands.”“I hardly consider that a conclusive proof. Wasthe remainder of the coronet at all injured?”“Yes, it was twisted.”“Do you not think, then, that he might have beentrying to straighten it?”“God bless you! You are doing what you can forhim and for me. But it is too heavy a task. What washe doing there at all? If his purpose were innocent,why did he not say so?”“Precisely. And if it were guilty, why did he notinvent a lie? His silence appears to me to cut bothways. There are several singular points about the case.What did the police think of the noise which awokeyou from your sleep?”“They considered that it might be caused byArthur’s closing his bedroom door.”“A likely story! As if a man bent on felony wouldslam his door so as to wake a household. What didthey say, then, of the disappearance of these gems?”“They are still sounding the planking and probingthe furniture in the hope of ﬁnding them.”“Have they thought of looking outside the house?”“Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy. Thewhole garden has already been minutely examined.”“Now, my dear sir,” said Holmes. “is it not ob-“Have they thought of looking outside the house?”“Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy. Thewhole garden has already been minutely examined.”“Now, my dear sir,” said Holmes. “is it not ob-vious to you now that this matter really strikes verymuch deeper than either you or the police were at ﬁrstinclined to think? It appeared to you to be a simplecase; to me it seems exceedingly complex. Considerwhat is involved by your theory. You suppose thatyour son came down from his bed, went, at great risk,to your dressing-room, opened your bureau, took outyour coronet, broke off by main force a small portionof it, went off to some other place, concealed threegems out of the thirty-nine, with such skill that no-body can ﬁnd them, and then returned with the otherthirty-six into the room in which he exposed himselfto the greatest danger of being discovered. I ask younow, is such a theory tenable?”137TheAdventure of the Beryl Coronet“But what other is there?” cried the banker witha gesture of despair. “If his motives were innocent,why does he not explain them?”“It is our task to ﬁnd that out,” replied Holmes;“so now, if you please, Mr. Holder, we will set off forStreatham together, and devote an hour to glancing alittle more closely into details.”My friend insisted upon my accompanying themin their expedition, which I was eager enough to do,for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply stirredby the story to which we had listened. I confess thatthe guilt of the banker’s son appeared to me to be asobvious as it did to his unhappy father, but still I hadsuch faith in Holmes’ judgment that I felt that theremust be some grounds for hope as long as he wasdissatisﬁed with the accepted explanation. He hardlyspoke a word the whole way out to the southern sub-urb, but sat with his chin upon his breast and hishat drawn over his eyes, sunk in the deepest thought.Our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at thelittle glimpse of hope which had been presented tohim, and he even broke into a desultory chat with meover his business affairs. A short railway journey anda shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, the modestresidence of the great ﬁnancier.Fairbank was a good-sized square house of whitestone, standing back a little from the road. A dou-ble carriage-sweep, with a snow-clad lawn, stretcheddown in front to two large iron gates which closedthe entrance. On the right side was a small woodenthicket, which led into a narrow path between twoneat hedges stretching from the road to the kitchendoor, and forming the tradesmen’s entrance. On theleft ran a lane which led to the stables, and was notitself within the grounds at all, being a public, thoughlittle used, thoroughfare. Holmes left us standingat the door and walked slowly all round the house,across the front, down the tradesmen’s path, andso round by the garden behind into the stable lane.So long was he that Mr. Holder and I went into thedining-room and waited by the ﬁre until he shouldreturn. We were sitting there in silence when the dooropened and a young lady came in. She was ratherabove the middle height, slim, with dark hair andeyes, which seemed the darker against the absolutepallor of her skin. I do not think that I have ever seensuch deadly paleness in a woman’s face. Her lips, too,were bloodless, but her eyes were ﬂushed with crying.As she swept silently into the room she impressed mewith a greater sense of grief than the banker had donein the morning, and it was the more striking in her asshe was evidently a woman of strong character, withimmense capacity for self-restraint. Disregarding mypresence, she went straight to her uncle and passedher hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress.“You have given orders that Arthur should beliberated, have you not, dad?” she asked.“No, no, my girl, the matter must be probed tothe bottom.”“But I am so sure that he is innocent. You knowwhat woman’s instincts are. I know that he has doneno harm and that you will be sorry for having actedso harshly.”“Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?”“Who knows? Perhaps because he was so angrythat you should suspect him.”“How could I help suspecting him, when I actuallysaw him with the coronet in his hand?”“Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it. Oh,do, do take my word for it that he is innocent. Letthe matter drop and say no more. It is so dreadful tothink of our dear Arthur in a prison!”“I shall never let it drop until the gems arefound—never, Mary! Your affection for Arthur blindsyou as to the awful consequences to me. Far fromhushing the thing up, I have brought a gentlemandown from London to inquire more deeply into it.”“This gentleman?” she asked, facing round to me.“No, his friend. He wished us to leave him alone.He is round in the stable lane now.”“The stable lane?” She raised her dark eyebrows.“This gentleman?” she asked, facing round to me.“No, his friend. He wished us to leave him alone.He is round in the stable lane now.”“The stable lane?” She raised her dark eyebrows.“What can he hope to ﬁnd there? Ah! this, I suppose,is he. I trust, sir, that you will succeed in proving,what I feel sure is the truth, that my cousin Arthur isinnocent of this crime.”“I fully share your opinion, and I trust, with you,that we may prove it,” returned Holmes, going back tothe mat to knock the snow from his shoes. “I believeI have the honour of addressing Miss Mary Holder.Might I ask you a question or two?”“Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horribleaffair up.”“You heard nothing yourself last night?”“Nothing, until my uncle here began to speakloudly. I heard that, and I came down.”“You shut up the windows and doors the nightbefore. Did you fasten all the windows?”“Yes.”“Were they all fastened this morning?”“Yes.”138TheAdventure of the Beryl Coronet“You have a maid who has a sweetheart? I thinkthat you remarked to your uncle last night that shehad been out to see him?”“Yes, and she was the girl who waited in thedrawing-room, and who may have heard uncle’s re-marks about the coronet.”“I see. You infer that she may have gone out to tellher sweetheart, and that the two may have plannedthe robbery.”“But what is the good of all these vague theories,”cried the banker impatiently, “when I have told youthat I saw Arthur with the coronet in his hands?”“Wait a little, Mr. Holder. We must come back tothat. About this girl, Miss Holder. You saw her returnby the kitchen door, I presume?”“Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastenedfor the night I met her slipping in. I saw the man, too,in the gloom.”“Do you know him?”“Oh, yes! he is the green-grocer who brings ourvegetables round. His name is Francis Prosper.”“He stood,” said Holmes, “to the left of thedoor—that is to say, farther up the path than is neces-sary to reach the door?”“Yes, he did.”“And he is a man with a wooden leg?”Something like fear sprang up in the young lady’sexpressive black eyes. “Why, you are like a magician,”said she. “How do you know that?” She smiled, butthere was no answering smile in Holmes’ thin, eagerface.“I should be very glad now to go upstairs,” saidhe. “I shall probably wish to go over the outside ofthe house again. Perhaps I had better take a look atthe lower windows before I go up.”He walked swiftly round from one to the other,pausing only at the large one which looked from thehall onto the stable lane. This he opened and made avery careful examination of the sill with his powerfulmagnifying lens. “Now we shall go upstairs,” said heat last.The banker’s dressing-room was a plainly fur-nished little chamber, with a grey carpet, a large bu-reau, and a long mirror. Holmes went to the bureauﬁrst and looked hard at the lock.“Which key was used to open it?” he asked.“That which my son himself indicated—that ofthe cupboard of the lumber-room.”“Have you it here?”“That is it on the dressing-table.”Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bu-reau.“It is a noiseless lock,” said he. “It is no wonderthat it did not wake you. This case, I presume, con-tains the coronet. We must have a look at it.” Heopened the case, and taking out the diadem he laid itupon the table. It was a magniﬁcent specimen of thejeweller’s art, and the thirty-six stones were the ﬁnestthat I have ever seen. At one side of the coronet wasa cracked edge, where a corner holding three gemshad been torn away.“Now, Mr. Holder,” said Holmes, “here is the cor-ner which corresponds to that which has been sounfortunately lost. Might I beg that you will break itoff.”The banker recoiled in horror. “I should not dreamof trying,” said he.“Then I will.” Holmes suddenly bent his strengthupon it, but without result. “I feel it give a little,”said he; “but, though I am exceptionally strong inthe ﬁngers, it would take me all my time to breakit. An ordinary man could not do it. Now, what doyou think would happen if I did break it, Mr. Holder?There would be a noise like a pistol shot. Do you tellme that all this happened within a few yards of yourbed and that you heard nothing of it?”“I do not know what to think. It is all dark to me.”“But perhaps it may grow lighter as we go. Whatdo you think, Miss Holder?”“I confess that I still share my uncle’s perplexity.”“Your son had no shoes or slippers on when yousaw him?”“He had nothing on save only his trousers andshirt.”“Thank you. We have certainly been favoured withextraordinary luck during this inquiry, and it will beentirely our own fault if we do not succeed in clearingthe matter up. With your permission, Mr. Holder, Ishall now continue my investigations outside.”He went alone, at his own request, for he ex-plained that any unnecessary footmarks might makethe matter up. With your permission, Mr. Holder, Ishall now continue my investigations outside.”He went alone, at his own request, for he ex-plained that any unnecessary footmarks might makehis task more difﬁcult. For an hour or more he was atwork, returning at last with his feet heavy with snowand his features as inscrutable as ever.“I think that I have seen now all that there is tosee, Mr. Holder,” said he; “I can serve you best byreturning to my rooms.”“But the gems, Mr. Holmes. Where are they?”“I cannot tell.”139TheAdventure of the Beryl CoronetThe banker wrung his hands. “I shall never seethem again!” he cried. “And my son? You give mehopes?”“My opinion is in no way altered.”“Then, for God’s sake, what was this dark busi-ness which was acted in my house last night?”“If you can call upon me at my Baker Street roomsto-morrow morning between nine and ten I shall behappy to do what I can to make it clearer. I under-stand that you give me carte blanche to act for you,provided only that I get back the gems, and that youplace no limit on the sum I may draw.”“I would give my fortune to have them back.”“Very good. I shall look into the matter betweenthis and then. Good-bye; it is just possible that I mayhave to come over here again before evening.”It was obvious to me that my companion’s mindwas now made up about the case, although what hisconclusions were was more than I could even dimlyimagine. Several times during our homeward journeyI endeavoured to sound him upon the point, but healways glided away to some other topic, until at last Igave it over in despair. It was not yet three when wefound ourselves in our rooms once more. He hurriedto his chamber and was down again in a few minutesdressed as a common loafer. With his collar turnedup, his shiny, seedy coat, his red cravat, and his wornboots, he was a perfect sample of the class.“I think that this should do,” said he, glancinginto the glass above the ﬁreplace. “I only wish thatyou could come with me, Watson, but I fear that itwon’t do. I may be on the trail in this matter, or Imay be following a will-o’-the-wisp, but I shall soonknow which it is. I hope that I may be back in a fewhours.” He cut a slice of beef from the joint uponthe sideboard, sandwiched it between two rounds ofbread, and thrusting this rude meal into his pockethe started off upon his expedition.I had just ﬁnished my tea when he returned, ev-idently in excellent spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand. He chucked it down into acorner and helped himself to a cup of tea.“I only looked in as I passed,” said he. “I amgoing right on.”“Where to?”“Oh, to the other side of the West End. It may besome time before I get back. Don’t wait up for me incase I should be late.”“How are you getting on?”“Oh, so so. Nothing to complain of. I have beenout to Streatham since I saw you last, but I did not callat the house. It is a very sweet little problem, and Iwould not have missed it for a good deal. However, Imust not sit gossiping here, but must get these disrep-utable clothes off and return to my highly respectableself.”I could see by his manner that he had strongerreasons for satisfaction than his words alone wouldimply. His eyes twinkled, and there was even a touchof colour upon his sallow cheeks. He hastened up-stairs, and a few minutes later I heard the slam of thehall door, which told me that he was off once moreupon his congenial hunt.I waited until midnight, but there was no sign ofhis return, so I retired to my room. It was no uncom-mon thing for him to be away for days and nights onend when he was hot upon a scent, so that his latenesscaused me no surprise. I do not know at what hourhe came in, but when I came down to breakfast inthe morning there he was with a cup of coffee in onehand and the paper in the other, as fresh and trim aspossible.“You will excuse my beginning without you, Wat-son,” said he, “but you remember that our client hasrather an early appointment this morning.”“Why, it is after nine now,” I answered. “I shouldnot be surprised if that were he. I thought I heard aring.”It was, indeed, our friend the ﬁnancier. I wasshocked by the change which had come over him, forhis face which was naturally of a broad and massivemould, was now pinched and fallen in, while his hairseemed to me at least a shade whiter. He enteredwith a weariness and lethargy which was even morepainful than his violence of the morning before, andseemed to me at least a shade whiter. He enteredwith a weariness and lethargy which was even morepainful than his violence of the morning before, andhe dropped heavily into the armchair which I pushedforward for him.“I do not know what I have done to be so severelytried,” said he. “Only two days ago I was a happyand prosperous man, without a care in the world.Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age. Onesorrow comes close upon the heels of another. Myniece, Mary, has deserted me.”“Deserted you?”“Yes. Her bed this morning had not been slept in,her room was empty, and a note for me lay upon thehall table. I had said to her last night, in sorrow andnot in anger, that if she had married my boy all mighthave been well with him. Perhaps it was thoughtless140TheAdventure of the Beryl Coronetof me to say so. It is to that remark that she refers inthis note:“ ‘My dearest Uncle :“ ‘I feel that I have brought trouble uponyou, and that if I had acted differentlythis terrible misfortune might never haveoccurred. I cannot, with this thought inmy mind, ever again be happy under yourroof, and I feel that I must leave you for-ever. Do not worry about my future, forthat is provided for; and, above all, do notsearch for me, for it will be fruitless labourand an ill-service to me. In life or in death,I am ever— “ ‘Your loving“ ‘Mary.’“What could she mean by that note, Mr. Holmes?Do you think it points to suicide?”“No, no, nothing of the kind. It is perhaps thebest possible solution. I trust, Mr. Holder, that youare nearing the end of your troubles.”“Ha! You say so! You have heard something, Mr.Holmes; you have learned something! Where are thegems?”“You would not think £1000 pounds apiece anexcessive sum for them?”“I would pay ten.”“That would be unnecessary. Three thousand willcover the matter. And there is a little reward, I fancy.Have you your check-book? Here is a pen. Bettermake it out for £4000 .”With a dazed face the banker made out the re-quired check. Holmes walked over to his desk, tookout a little triangular piece of gold with three gems init, and threw it down upon the table.With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.“You have it!” he gasped. “I am saved! I amsaved!”The reaction of joy was as passionate as his griefhad been, and he hugged his recovered gems to hisbosom.“There is one other thing you owe, Mr. Holder,”said Sherlock Holmes rather sternly.“Owe!” He caught up a pen. “Name the sum, andI will pay it.”“No, the debt is not to me. You owe a very humbleapology to that noble lad, your son, who has carriedhimself in this matter as I should be proud to see myown son do, should I ever chance to have one.”“Then it was not Arthur who took them?”“I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that itwas not.”“You are sure of it! Then let us hurry to him atonce to let him know that the truth is known.”“He knows it already. When I had cleared it allup I had an interview with him, and ﬁnding that hewould not tell me the story, I told it to him, on whichhe had to confess that I was right and to add the veryfew details which were not yet quite clear to me. Yournews of this morning, however, may open his lips.”“For heaven’s sake, tell me, then, what is this ex-traordinary mystery!”“I will do so, and I will show you the steps bywhich I reached it. And let me say to you, ﬁrst, thatwhich it is hardest for me to say and for you to hear:there has been an understanding between Sir GeorgeBurnwell and your niece Mary. They have now ﬂedtogether.”“My Mary? Impossible!”“It is unfortunately more than possible; it is cer-tain. Neither you nor your son knew the true char-acter of this man when you admitted him into yourfamily circle. He is one of the most dangerous men inEngland—a ruined gambler, an absolutely desperatevillain, a man without heart or conscience. Your nieceknew nothing of such men. When he breathed hisvows to her, as he had done to a hundred before her,she ﬂattered herself that she alone had touched hisheart. The devil knows best what he said, but at leastshe became his tool and was in the habit of seeinghim nearly every evening.”“I cannot, and I will not, believe it!” cried thebanker with an ashen face.“I will tell you, then, what occurred in your houselast night. Your niece, when you had, as she thought,gone to your room, slipped down and talked to herlover through the window which leads into the stablelane. His footmarks had pressed right through thesnow, so long had he stood there. She told him ofthe coronet. His wicked lust for gold kindled at thenews, and he bent her to his will. I have no doubtthat she loved you, but there are women in whomthe coronet. His wicked lust for gold kindled at thenews, and he bent her to his will. I have no doubtthat she loved you, but there are women in whomthe love of a lover extinguishes all other loves, and Ithink that she must have been one. She had hardlylistened to his instructions when she saw you comingdownstairs, on which she closed the window rapidlyand told you about one of the servants’ escapade withher wooden-legged lover, which was all perfectly true.141TheAdventure of the Beryl Coronet“Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his interviewwith you but he slept badly on account of his un-easiness about his club debts. In the middle of thenight he heard a soft tread pass his door, so he roseand, looking out, was surprised to see his cousinwalking very stealthily along the passage until shedisappeared into your dressing-room. Petriﬁed withastonishment, the lad slipped on some clothes andwaited there in the dark to see what would come ofthis strange affair. Presently she emerged from theroom again, and in the light of the passage-lamp yourson saw that she carried the precious coronet in herhands. She passed down the stairs, and he, thrillingwith horror, ran along and slipped behind the curtainnear your door, whence he could see what passed inthe hall beneath. He saw her stealthily open the win-dow, hand out the coronet to someone in the gloom,and then closing it once more hurry back to her room,passing quite close to where he stood hid behind thecurtain.“As long as she was on the scene he could not takeany action without a horrible exposure of the womanwhom he loved. But the instant that she was gone herealised how crushing a misfortune this would be foryou, and how all-important it was to set it right. Herushed down, just as he was, in his bare feet, openedthe window, sprang out into the snow, and ran downthe lane, where he could see a dark ﬁgure in themoonlight. Sir George Burnwell tried to get away, butArthur caught him, and there was a struggle betweenthem, your lad tugging at one side of the coronet, andhis opponent at the other. In the scufﬂe, your sonstruck Sir George and cut him over the eye. Thensomething suddenly snapped, and your son, ﬁndingthat he had the coronet in his hands, rushed back,closed the window, ascended to your room, and hadjust observed that the coronet had been twisted in thestruggle and was endeavouring to straighten it whenyou appeared upon the scene.”“Is it possible?” gasped the banker.“You then roused his anger by calling him namesat a moment when he felt that he had deserved yourwarmest thanks. He could not explain the true state ofaffairs without betraying one who certainly deservedlittle enough consideration at his hands. He took themore chivalrous view, however, and preserved hersecret.”“And that was why she shrieked and fainted whenshe saw the coronet,” cried Mr. Holder. “Oh, my God!what a blind fool I have been! And his asking to beallowed to go out for ﬁve minutes! The dear fellowwanted to see if the missing piece were at the sceneof the struggle. How cruelly I have misjudged him!”“When I arrived at the house,” continued Holmes,“I at once went very carefully round it to observe ifthere were any traces in the snow which might helpme. I knew that none had fallen since the eveningbefore, and also that there had been a strong frost topreserve impressions. I passed along the tradesmen’spath, but found it all trampled down and indistin-guishable. Just beyond it, however, at the far sideof the kitchen door, a woman had stood and talkedwith a man, whose round impressions on one sideshowed that he had a wooden leg. I could even tellthat they had been disturbed, for the woman had runback swiftly to the door, as was shown by the deep toeand light heel marks, while Wooden-leg had waited alittle, and then had gone away. I thought at the timethat this might be the maid and her sweetheart, ofwhom you had already spoken to me, and inquiryshowed it was so. I passed round the garden withoutseeing anything more than random tracks, which Itook to be the police; but when I got into the stablelane a very long and complex story was written in thesnow in front of me.“There was a double line of tracks of a bootedman, and a second double line which I saw with de-light belonged to a man with naked feet. I was at onceconvinced from what you had told me that the latterman, and a second double line which I saw with de-light belonged to a man with naked feet. I was at onceconvinced from what you had told me that the latterwas your son. The ﬁrst had walked both ways, but theother had run swiftly, and as his tread was marked inplaces over the depression of the boot, it was obviousthat he had passed after the other. I followed them upand found they led to the hall window, where Bootshad worn all the snow away while waiting. Then Iwalked to the other end, which was a hundred yardsor more down the lane. I saw where Boots had facedround, where the snow was cut up as though therehad been a struggle, and, ﬁnally, where a few drops ofblood had fallen, to show me that I was not mistaken.Boots had then run down the lane, and another littlesmudge of blood showed that it was he who had beenhurt. When he came to the highroad at the other end,I found that the pavement had been cleared, so therewas an end to that clue.“On entering the house, however, I examined, asyou remember, the sill and framework of the hallwindow with my lens, and I could at once see thatsomeone had passed out. I could distinguish the out-line of an instep where the wet foot had been placedin coming in. I was then beginning to be able to forman opinion as to what had occurred. A man hadwaited outside the window; someone had brought142TheAdventure of the Beryl Coronetthe gems; the deed had been overseen by your son; hehad pursued the thief; had struggled with him; theyhad each tugged at the coronet, their united strengthcausing injuries which neither alone could have ef-fected. He had returned with the prize, but had left afragment in the grasp of his opponent. So far I wasclear. The question now was, who was the man andwho was it brought him the coronet?“It is an old maxim of mine that when you haveexcluded the impossible, whatever remains, howeverimprobable, must be the truth. Now, I knew that itwas not you who had brought it down, so there onlyremained your niece and the maids. But if it werethe maids, why should your son allow himself to beaccused in their place? There could be no possiblereason. As he loved his cousin, however, there wasan excellent explanation why he should retain hersecret—the more so as the secret was a disgracefulone. When I remembered that you had seen her atthat window, and how she had fainted on seeing thecoronet again, my conjecture became a certainty.“And who could it be who was her confederate?A lover evidently, for who else could outweigh thelove and gratitude which she must feel to you? Iknew that you went out little, and that your circle offriends was a very limited one. But among them wasSir George Burnwell. I had heard of him before asbeing a man of evil reputation among women. It musthave been he who wore those boots and retained themissing gems. Even though he knew that Arthur haddiscovered him, he might still ﬂatter himself that hewas safe, for the lad could not say a word withoutcompromising his own family.“Well, your own good sense will suggest whatmeasures I took next. I went in the shape of a loaferto Sir George’s house, managed to pick up an acquain-tance with his valet, learned that his master had cuthis head the night before, and, ﬁnally, at the expenseof six shillings, made all sure by buying a pair ofhis cast-off shoes. With these I journeyed down toStreatham and saw that they exactly ﬁtted the tracks.”“I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yester-day evening,” said Mr. Holder.“Precisely. It was I. I found that I had my man,so I came home and changed my clothes. It was adelicate part which I had to play then, for I saw thata prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal, and Iknew that so astute a villain would see that our handswere tied in the matter. I went and saw him. At ﬁrst,of course, he denied everything. But when I gave himevery particular that had occurred, he tried to blusterand took down a life-preserver from the wall. I knewmy man, however, and I clapped a pistol to his headbefore he could strike. Then he became a little morereasonable. I told him that we would give him a pricefor the stones he held— £1000 apiece. That broughtout the ﬁrst signs of grief that he had shown. ‘Why,dash it all!’ said he, ‘I’ve let them go at six hundredfor the three!’ I soon managed to get the address ofthe receiver who had them, on promising him thatthere would be no prosecution. Off I set to him, andafter much chaffering I got our stones at 1000 poundsapiece. Then I looked in upon your son, told himthat all was right, and eventually got to my bed abouttwo o’clock, after what I may call a really hard day’swork.”“A day which has saved England from a greatpublic scandal,” said the banker, rising. “Sir, I cannotﬁnd words to thank you, but you shall not ﬁnd meungrateful for what you have done. Your skill hasindeed exceeded all that I have heard of it. And nowI must ﬂy to my dear boy to apologise to him for thewrong which I have done him. As to what you tellme of poor Mary, it goes to my very heart. Not evenyour skill can inform me where she is now.”“I think that we may safely say,” returned Holmes,“that she is wherever Sir George Burnwell is. It isequally certain, too, that whatever her sins are, they“I think that we may safely say,” returned Holmes,“that she is wherever Sir George Burnwell is. It isequally certain, too, that whatever her sins are, theywill soon receive a more than sufﬁcient punishment.”143The Adventure of the Copper BeechesTheAdventure of the Copper BeechesTo the man who loves art for its own sake,”remarked Sherlock Holmes, tossing asidethe advertisement sheet of the Daily Tele-graph , “it is frequently in its least importantand lowliest manifestations that the keenest pleasureis to be derived. It is pleasant to me to observe, Wat-son, that you have so far grasped this truth that inthese little records of our cases which you have beengood enough to draw up, and, I am bound to say, occa-sionally to embellish, you have given prominence notso much to the many causes c ´el`ebres and sensationaltrials in which I have ﬁgured but rather to those inci-dents which may have been trivial in themselves, butwhich have given room for those faculties of deduc-tion and of logical synthesis which I have made myspecial province.”“And yet,” said I, smiling, “I cannot quite holdmyself absolved from the charge of sensationalismwhich has been urged against my records.”“You have erred, perhaps,” he observed, takingup a glowing cinder with the tongs and lighting withit the long cherry-wood pipe which was wont to re-place his clay when he was in a disputatious ratherthan a meditative mood—“you have erred perhaps inattempting to put colour and life into each of yourstatements instead of conﬁning yourself to the task ofplacing upon record that severe reasoning from causeto effect which is really the only notable feature aboutthe thing.”“It seems to me that I have done you full justice inthe matter,” I remarked with some coldness, for I wasrepelled by the egotism which I had more than onceobserved to be a strong factor in my friend’s singularcharacter.“No, it is not selﬁshness or conceit,” said he, an-swering, as was his wont, my thoughts rather thanmy words. “If I claim full justice for my art, it isbecause it is an impersonal thing—a thing beyondmyself. Crime is common. Logic is rare. Therefore itis upon the logic rather than upon the crime that youshould dwell. You have degraded what should havebeen a course of lectures into a series of tales.”It was a cold morning of the early spring, andwe sat after breakfast on either side of a cheery ﬁrein the old room at Baker Street. A thick fog rolleddown between the lines of dun-coloured houses, andthe opposing windows loomed like dark, shapelessblurs through the heavy yellow wreaths. Our gaswas lit and shone on the white cloth and glimmer ofchina and metal, for the table had not been cleared yet.Sherlock Holmes had been silent all the morning, dip-ping continuously into the advertisement columns ofa succession of papers until at last, having apparentlygiven up his search, he had emerged in no very sweettemper to lecture me upon my literary shortcomings.“At the same time,” he remarked after a pause,during which he had sat pufﬁng at his long pipe andgazing down into the ﬁre, “you can hardly be opento a charge of sensationalism, for out of these caseswhich you have been so kind as to interest yourselfin, a fair proportion do not treat of crime, in its legalsense, at all. The small matter in which I endeavouredto help the King of Bohemia, the singular experienceof Miss Mary Sutherland, the problem connected withthe man with the twisted lip, and the incident of thenoble bachelor, were all matters which are outside thepale of the law. But in avoiding the sensational, I fearthat you may have bordered on the trivial.”“The end may have been so,” I answered, “but themethods I hold to have been novel and of interest.”“Pshaw, my dear fellow, what do the public, thegreat unobservant public, who could hardly tell aweaver by his tooth or a compositor by his left thumb,care about the ﬁner shades of analysis and deduction!But, indeed, if you are trivial, I cannot blame you, forthe days of the great cases are past. Man, or at leastcriminal man, has lost all enterprise and originality.As to my own little practice, it seems to be degenerat-the days of the great cases are past. Man, or at leastcriminal man, has lost all enterprise and originality.As to my own little practice, it seems to be degenerat-ing into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils andgiving advice to young ladies from boarding-schools.I think that I have touched bottom at last, however.This note I had this morning marks my zero-point, Ifancy. Read it!” He tossed a crumpled letter across tome.It was dated from Montague Place upon the pre-ceding evening, and ran thus:Dear Mr. Holmes :I am very anxious to consult you as towhether I should or should not accept asituation which has been offered to meas governess. I shall call at half-past tento-morrow if I do not inconvenience you.— Yours faithfully,Violet Hunter .“Do you know the young lady?” I asked.“Not I.”“It is half-past ten now.”“Yes, and I have no doubt that is her ring.”“It may turn out to be of more interest than youthink. You remember that the affair of the blue car-buncle, which appeared to be a mere whim at ﬁrst,147TheAdventure of the Copper Beechesdeveloped into a serious investigation. It may be soin this case, also.”“Well, let us hope so. But our doubts will verysoon be solved, for here, unless I am much mistaken,is the person in question.”As he spoke the door opened and a young ladyentered the room. She was plainly but neatly dressed,with a bright, quick face, freckled like a plover’s egg,and with the brisk manner of a woman who has hadher own way to make in the world.“You will excuse my troubling you, I am sure,”said she, as my companion rose to greet her, “but Ihave had a very strange experience, and as I have noparents or relations of any sort from whom I couldask advice, I thought that perhaps you would be kindenough to tell me what I should do.”“Pray take a seat, Miss Hunter. I shall be happy todo anything that I can to serve you.”I could see that Holmes was favourably impressedby the manner and speech of his new client. Helooked her over in his searching fashion, and thencomposed himself, with his lids drooping and hisﬁnger-tips together, to listen to her story.“I have been a governess for ﬁve years,” said she,“in the family of Colonel Spence Munro, but twomonths ago the colonel received an appointment atHalifax, in Nova Scotia, and took his children overto America with him, so that I found myself withouta situation. I advertised, and I answered advertise-ments, but without success. At last the little moneywhich I had saved began to run short, and I was atmy wit’s end as to what I should do.“There is a well-known agency for governesses inthe West End called Westaway’s, and there I used tocall about once a week in order to see whether any-thing had turned up which might suit me. Westawaywas the name of the founder of the business, but it isreally managed by Miss Stoper. She sits in her own lit-tle ofﬁce, and the ladies who are seeking employmentwait in an anteroom, and are then shown in one byone, when she consults her ledgers and sees whethershe has anything which would suit them.“Well, when I called last week I was shown intothe little ofﬁce as usual, but I found that Miss Stoperwas not alone. A prodigiously stout man with a verysmiling face and a great heavy chin which rolleddown in fold upon fold over his throat sat at her el-bow with a pair of glasses on his nose, looking veryearnestly at the ladies who entered. As I came in hegave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly toMiss Stoper.“ ‘That will do,’ said he; ‘I could not ask for any-thing better. Capital! capital!’ He seemed quite en-thusiastic and rubbed his hands together in the mostgenial fashion. He was such a comfortable-lookingman that it was quite a pleasure to look at him.“ ‘You are looking for a situation, miss?’ he asked.“ ‘Yes, sir.’“ ‘As governess?’“ ‘Yes, sir.’“ ‘And what salary do you ask?’“ ‘I had £4a month in my last place with ColonelSpence Munro.’“ ‘Oh, tut, tut! sweating—rank sweating!’ he cried,throwing his fat hands out into the air like a manwho is in a boiling passion. ‘How could anyone offerso pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions andaccomplishments?’“ ‘My accomplishments, sir, may be less than youimagine,’ said I. ‘A little French, a little German, mu-sic, and drawing—’“ ‘Tut, tut!’ he cried. ‘This is all quite beside thequestion. The point is, have you or have you not thebearing and deportment of a lady? There it is in anutshell. If you have not, you are not ﬁtted for therearing of a child who may some day play a consider-able part in the history of the country. But if you havewhy, then, how could any gentleman ask you to con-descend to accept anything under the three ﬁgures?Your salary with me, madam, would commence at£100a year.’“You may imagine, Mr. Holmes, that to me, desti-tute as I was, such an offer seemed almost too good tobe true. The gentleman, however, seeing perhaps thelook of incredulity upon my face, opened a pocket-tute as I was, such an offer seemed almost too good tobe true. The gentleman, however, seeing perhaps thelook of incredulity upon my face, opened a pocket-book and took out a note.“ ‘It is also my custom,’ said he, smiling in themost pleasant fashion until his eyes were just twolittle shining slits amid the white creases of his face,‘to advance to my young ladies half their salary be-forehand, so that they may meet any little expensesof their journey and their wardrobe.’“It seemed to me that I had never met so fasci-nating and so thoughtful a man. As I was alreadyin debt to my tradesmen, the advance was a greatconvenience, and yet there was something unnaturalabout the whole transaction which made me wish toknow a little more before I quite committed myself.“ ‘May I ask where you live, sir?’ said I.“ ‘Hampshire. Charming rural place. The CopperBeeches, ﬁve miles on the far side of Winchester. It is148TheAdventure of the Copper Beechesthe most lovely country, my dear young lady, and thedearest old country-house.’“ ‘And my duties, sir? I should be glad to knowwhat they would be.’“ ‘One child—one dear little romper just six yearsold. Oh, if you could see him killing cockroaches witha slipper! Smack! smack! smack! Three gone beforeyou could wink!’ He leaned back in his chair andlaughed his eyes into his head again.“I was a little startled at the nature of the child’samusement, but the father’s laughter made me thinkthat perhaps he was joking.“ ‘My sole duties, then,’ I asked, ‘are to take chargeof a single child?’“ ‘No, no, not the sole, not the sole, my dear younglady,’ he cried. ‘Your duty would be, as I am sureyour good sense would suggest, to obey any little com-mands my wife might give, provided always that theywere such commands as a lady might with proprietyobey. You see no difﬁculty, heh?’“ ‘I should be happy to make myself useful.’“ ‘Quite so. In dress now, for example. We arefaddy people, you know—faddy but kind-hearted. Ifyou were asked to wear any dress which we mightgive you, you would not object to our little whim.Heh?’“ ‘No,’ said I, considerably astonished at hiswords.“ ‘Or to sit here, or sit there, that would not beoffensive to you?’“ ‘Oh, no.’“ ‘Or to cut your hair quite short before you cometo us?’“I could hardly believe my ears. As you may ob-serve, Mr. Holmes, my hair is somewhat luxuriant,and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut. It has beenconsidered artistic. I could not dream of sacriﬁcing itin this offhand fashion.“ ‘I am afraid that that is quite impossible,’ saidI. He had been watching me eagerly out of his smalleyes, and I could see a shadow pass over his face as Ispoke.“ ‘I am afraid that it is quite essential,’ said he. ‘Itis a little fancy of my wife’s, and ladies’ fancies, youknow, madam, ladies’ fancies must be consulted. Andso you won’t cut your hair?’“ ‘No, sir, I really could not,’ I answered ﬁrmly.“ ‘Ah, very well; then that quite settles the matter.It is a pity, because in other respects you would reallyhave done very nicely. In that case, Miss Stoper, I hadbest inspect a few more of your young ladies.’“The manageress had sat all this while busy withher papers without a word to either of us, but sheglanced at me now with so much annoyance uponher face that I could not help suspecting that she hadlost a handsome commission through my refusal.“ ‘Do you desire your name to be kept upon thebooks?’ she asked.“ ‘If you please, Miss Stoper.’“ ‘Well, really, it seems rather useless, since yourefuse the most excellent offers in this fashion,’ saidshe sharply. ‘You can hardly expect us to exert our-selves to ﬁnd another such opening for you. Good-day to you, Miss Hunter.’ She struck a gong upon thetable, and I was shown out by the page.“Well, Mr. Holmes, when I got back to my lodg-ings and found little enough in the cupboard, and twoor three bills upon the table. I began to ask myselfwhether I had not done a very foolish thing. Afterall, if these people had strange fads and expected obe-dience on the most extraordinary matters, they wereat least ready to pay for their eccentricity. Very fewgovernesses in England are getting £100a year. Be-sides, what use was my hair to me? Many people areimproved by wearing it short and perhaps I shouldbe among the number. Next day I was inclined tothink that I had made a mistake, and by the day afterI was sure of it. I had almost overcome my pride sofar as to go back to the agency and inquire whetherthe place was still open when I received this letterfrom the gentleman himself. I have it here and I willread it to you:“ ‘The Copper Beeches, near Winchester.“ ‘Dear MissHunter :“ ‘Miss Stoper has very kindly given meyour address, and I write from here to askyou whether you have reconsidered yourdecision. My wife is very anxious thatyou should come, for she has been much“ ‘Miss Stoper has very kindly given meyour address, and I write from here to askyou whether you have reconsidered yourdecision. My wife is very anxious thatyou should come, for she has been muchattracted by my description of you. Weare willing to give £30a quarter, or £120a year, so as to recompense you for anylittle inconvenience which our fads maycause you. They are not very exacting,after all. My wife is fond of a particu-lar shade of electric blue and would likeyou to wear such a dress indoors in themorning. You need not, however, go to theexpense of purchasing one, as we have onebelonging to my dear daughter Alice (nowin Philadelphia), which would, I should149TheAdventure of the Copper Beechesthink, ﬁt you very well. Then, as to sittinghere or there, or amusing yourself in anymanner indicated, that need cause you noinconvenience. As regards your hair, itis no doubt a pity, especially as I couldnot help remarking its beauty during ourshort interview, but I am afraid that I mustremain ﬁrm upon this point, and I onlyhope that the increased salary may recom-pense you for the loss. Your duties, as faras the child is concerned, are very light.Now do try to come, and I shall meet youwith the dog-cart at Winchester. Let meknow your train.— “ ‘Yours faithfully,“ ‘Jephro Rucastle .’“That is the letter which I have just received, Mr.Holmes, and my mind is made up that I will acceptit. I thought, however, that before taking the ﬁnalstep I should like to submit the whole matter to yourconsideration.”“Well, Miss Hunter, if your mind is made up, thatsettles the question,” said Holmes, smiling.“But you would not advise me to refuse?”“I confess that it is not the situation which I shouldlike to see a sister of mine apply for.”“What is the meaning of it all, Mr. Holmes?”“Ah, I have no data. I cannot tell. Perhaps youhave yourself formed some opinion?”“Well, there seems to me to be only one possi-ble solution. Mr. Rucastle seemed to be a very kind,good-natured man. Is it not possible that his wife isa lunatic, that he desires to keep the matter quiet forfear she should be taken to an asylum, and that hehumours her fancies in every way in order to preventan outbreak?”“That is a possible solution—in fact, as mattersstand, it is the most probable one. But in any caseit does not seem to be a nice household for a younglady.”“But the money, Mr. Holmes, the money!”“Well, yes, of course the pay is good—too good.That is what makes me uneasy. Why should they giveyou £120a year, when they could have their pick for£40? There must be some strong reason behind.”“I thought that if I told you the circumstances youwould understand afterwards if I wanted your help. Ishould feel so much stronger if I felt that you were atthe back of me.”“Oh, you may carry that feeling away with you. Iassure you that your little problem promises to be themost interesting which has come my way for somemonths. There is something distinctly novel aboutsome of the features. If you should ﬁnd yourself indoubt or in danger—”“Danger! What danger do you foresee?”Holmes shook his head gravely. “It would ceaseto be a danger if we could deﬁne it,” said he. “But atany time, day or night, a telegram would bring medown to your help.”“That is enough.” She rose briskly from her chairwith the anxiety all swept from her face. “I shall godown to Hampshire quite easy in my mind now. Ishall write to Mr. Rucastle at once, sacriﬁce my poorhair to-night, and start for Winchester to-morrow.”With a few grateful words to Holmes she bade usboth good-night and bustled off upon her way.“At least,” said I as we heard her quick, ﬁrm stepsdescending the stairs, “she seems to be a young ladywho is very well able to take care of herself.”“And she would need to be,” said Holmes gravely.“I am much mistaken if we do not hear from herbefore many days are past.”It was not very long before my friend’s predictionwas fulﬁlled. A fortnight went by, during which Ifrequently found my thoughts turning in her direc-tion and wondering what strange side-alley of hu-man experience this lonely woman had strayed into.The unusual salary, the curious conditions, the lightduties, all pointed to something abnormal, thoughwhether a fad or a plot, or whether the man were aphilanthropist or a villain, it was quite beyond mypowers to determine. As to Holmes, I observed thathe sat frequently for half an hour on end, with knittedbrows and an abstracted air, but he swept the matteraway with a wave of his hand when I mentioned it.“Data! data! data!” he cried impatiently. “I can’t makebrows and an abstracted air, but he swept the matteraway with a wave of his hand when I mentioned it.“Data! data! data!” he cried impatiently. “I can’t makebricks without clay.” And yet he would always windup by muttering that no sister of his should ever haveaccepted such a situation.The telegram which we eventually received camelate one night just as I was thinking of turning in andHolmes was settling down to one of those all-nightchemical researches which he frequently indulged in,when I would leave him stooping over a retort and atest-tube at night and ﬁnd him in the same positionwhen I came down to breakfast in the morning. Heopened the yellow envelope, and then, glancing at themessage, threw it across to me.150TheAdventure of the Copper Beeches“Just look up the trains in Bradshaw,” said he, andturned back to his chemical studies.The summons was a brief and urgent one.Please be at the Black Swan Hotel atWinchester at midday to-morrow [it said].Do come! I am at my wit’s end.— Hunter .“Will you come with me?” asked Holmes, glancingup.“I should wish to.”“Just look it up, then.”“There is a train at half-past nine,” said I, glancingover my Bradshaw. “It is due at Winchester at 11.30.”“That will do very nicely. Then perhaps I hadbetter postpone my analysis of the acetones, as wemay need to be at our best in the morning.”By eleven o’clock the next day we were well uponour way to the old English capital. Holmes had beenburied in the morning papers all the way down, butafter we had passed the Hampshire border he threwthem down and began to admire the scenery. It wasan ideal spring day, a light blue sky, ﬂecked with littleﬂeecy white clouds drifting across from west to east.The sun was shining very brightly, and yet there wasan exhilarating nip in the air, which set an edge to aman’s energy. All over the countryside, away to therolling hills around Aldershot, the little red and greyroofs of the farm-steadings peeped out from amid thelight green of the new foliage.“Are they not fresh and beautiful?” I cried with allthe enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of BakerStreet.But Holmes shook his head gravely.“Do you know, Watson,” said he, “that it is one ofthe curses of a mind with a turn like mine that I mustlook at everything with reference to my own specialsubject. You look at these scattered houses, and youare impressed by their beauty. I look at them, and theonly thought which comes to me is a feeling of theirisolation and of the impunity with which crime maybe committed there.”“Good heavens!” I cried. “Who would associatecrime with these dear old homesteads?”“They always ﬁll me with a certain horror. It ismy belief, Watson, founded upon my experience, thatthe lowest and vilest alleys in London do not presenta more dreadful record of sin than does the smilingand beautiful countryside.”“You horrify me!”“But the reason is very obvious. The pressure ofpublic opinion can do in the town what the law cannotaccomplish. There is no lane so vile that the screamof a tortured child, or the thud of a drunkard’s blow,does not beget sympathy and indignation among theneighbours, and then the whole machinery of justiceis ever so close that a word of complaint can set itgoing, and there is but a step between the crime andthe dock. But look at these lonely houses, each in itsown ﬁelds, ﬁlled for the most part with poor ignorantfolk who know little of the law. Think of the deedsof hellish cruelty, the hidden wickedness which maygo on, year in, year out, in such places, and none thewiser. Had this lady who appeals to us for help goneto live in Winchester, I should never have had a fearfor her. It is the ﬁve miles of country which makesthe danger. Still, it is clear that she is not personallythreatened.”“No. If she can come to Winchester to meet us shecan get away.”“Quite so. She has her freedom.”“What canbe the matter, then? Can you suggestno explanation?”“I have devised seven separate explanations, eachof which would cover the facts as far as we knowthem. But which of these is correct can only be de-termined by the fresh information which we shall nodoubt ﬁnd waiting for us. Well, there is the tower ofthe cathedral, and we shall soon learn all that MissHunter has to tell.”The Black Swan is an inn of repute in the HighStreet, at no distance from the station, and there wefound the young lady waiting for us. She had en-gaged a sitting-room, and our lunch awaited us uponthe table.“I am so delighted that you have come,” she saidearnestly. “It is so very kind of you both; but indeed Ido not know what I should do. Your advice will bealtogether invaluable to me.”the table.“I am so delighted that you have come,” she saidearnestly. “It is so very kind of you both; but indeed Ido not know what I should do. Your advice will bealtogether invaluable to me.”“Pray tell us what has happened to you.”“I will do so, and I must be quick, for I havepromised Mr. Rucastle to be back before three. I gothis leave to come into town this morning, though helittle knew for what purpose.”“Let us have everything in its due order.” Holmesthrust his long thin legs out towards the ﬁre andcomposed himself to listen.“In the ﬁrst place, I may say that I have met, onthe whole, with no actual ill-treatment from Mr. andMrs. Rucastle. It is only fair to them to say that. But151TheAdventure of the Copper BeechesI cannot understand them, and I am not easy in mymind about them.”“What can you not understand?”“Their reasons for their conduct. But you shallhave it all just as it occurred. When I came down, Mr.Rucastle met me here and drove me in his dog-cartto the Copper Beeches. It is, as he said, beautifullysituated, but it is not beautiful in itself, for it is a largesquare block of a house, whitewashed, but all stainedand streaked with damp and bad weather. There aregrounds round it, woods on three sides, and on thefourth a ﬁeld which slopes down to the Southamptonhighroad, which curves past about a hundred yardsfrom the front door. This ground in front belongs tothe house, but the woods all round are part of LordSoutherton’s preserves. A clump of copper beechesimmediately in front of the hall door has given itsname to the place.“I was driven over by my employer, who wasas amiable as ever, and was introduced by him thatevening to his wife and the child. There was no truth,Mr. Holmes, in the conjecture which seemed to us tobe probable in your rooms at Baker Street. Mrs. Ru-castle is not mad. I found her to be a silent, pale-facedwoman, much younger than her husband, not morethan thirty, I should think, while he can hardly be lessthan forty-ﬁve. From their conversation I have gath-ered that they have been married about seven years,that he was a widower, and that his only child by theﬁrst wife was the daughter who has gone to Philadel-phia. Mr. Rucastle told me in private that the reasonwhy she had left them was that she had an unreason-ing aversion to her stepmother. As the daughter couldnot have been less than twenty, I can quite imaginethat her position must have been uncomfortable withher father’s young wife.“Mrs. Rucastle seemed to me to be colourless inmind as well as in feature. She impressed me neitherfavourably nor the reverse. She was a nonentity. Itwas easy to see that she was passionately devotedboth to her husband and to her little son. Her lightgrey eyes wandered continually from one to the other,noting every little want and forestalling it if possible.He was kind to her also in his bluff, boisterous fashion,and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple.And yet she had some secret sorrow, this woman. Shewould often be lost in deep thought, with the saddestlook upon her face. More than once I have surprisedher in tears. I have thought sometimes that it wasthe disposition of her child which weighed upon hermind, for I have never met so utterly spoiled and soill-natured a little creature. He is small for his age,with a head which is quite disproportionately large.His whole life appears to be spent in an alternationbetween savage ﬁts of passion and gloomy intervalsof sulking. Giving pain to any creature weaker thanhimself seems to be his one idea of amusement, andhe shows quite remarkable talent in planning the cap-ture of mice, little birds, and insects. But I wouldrather not talk about the creature, Mr. Holmes, and,indeed, he has little to do with my story.”“I am glad of all details,” remarked my friend,“whether they seem to you to be relevant or not.”“I shall try not to miss anything of importance.The one unpleasant thing about the house, whichstruck me at once, was the appearance and conductof the servants. There are only two, a man and hiswife. Toller, for that is his name, is a rough, uncouthman, with grizzled hair and whiskers, and a perpetualsmell of drink. Twice since I have been with them hehas been quite drunk, and yet Mr. Rucastle seemed totake no notice of it. His wife is a very tall and strongwoman with a sour face, as silent as Mrs. Rucastleand much less amiable. They are a most unpleasantcouple, but fortunately I spend most of my time inthe nursery and my own room, which are next to eachother in one corner of the building.“For two days after my arrival at the Coppercouple, but fortunately I spend most of my time inthe nursery and my own room, which are next to eachother in one corner of the building.“For two days after my arrival at the CopperBeeches my life was very quiet; on the third, Mrs.Rucastle came down just after breakfast and whis-pered something to her husband.“ ‘Oh, yes,’ said he, turning to me, ‘we are verymuch obliged to you, Miss Hunter, for falling in withour whims so far as to cut your hair. I assure youthat it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from yourappearance. We shall now see how the electric-bluedress will become you. You will ﬁnd it laid out uponthe bed in your room, and if you would be so goodas to put it on we should both be extremely obliged.’“The dress which I found waiting for me was of apeculiar shade of blue. It was of excellent material, asort of beige, but it bore unmistakable signs of havingbeen worn before. It could not have been a betterﬁt if I had been measured for it. Both Mr. and Mrs.Rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it, whichseemed quite exaggerated in its vehemence. Theywere waiting for me in the drawing-room, which is avery large room, stretching along the entire front ofthe house, with three long windows reaching down tothe ﬂoor. A chair had been placed close to the centralwindow, with its back turned towards it. In this I wasasked to sit, and then Mr. Rucastle, walking up anddown on the other side of the room, began to tell me152TheAdventure of the Copper Beechesa series of the funniest stories that I have ever listenedto. You cannot imagine how comical he was, and Ilaughed until I was quite weary. Mrs. Rucastle, how-ever, who has evidently no sense of humour, neverso much as smiled, but sat with her hands in her lap,and a sad, anxious look upon her face. After an houror so, Mr. Rucastle suddenly remarked that it wastime to commence the duties of the day, and that Imight change my dress and go to little Edward in thenursery.“Two days later this same performance was gonethrough under exactly similar circumstances. AgainI changed my dress, again I sat in the window, andagain I laughed very heartily at the funny storiesof which my employer had an immense r ´epertoire,and which he told inimitably. Then he handed mea yellow-backed novel, and moving my chair a littlesideways, that my own shadow might not fall uponthe page, he begged me to read aloud to him. I readfor about ten minutes, beginning in the heart of achapter, and then suddenly, in the middle of a sen-tence, he ordered me to cease and to change my dress.“You can easily imagine, Mr. Holmes, how curiousI became as to what the meaning of this extraordinaryperformance could possibly be. They were alwaysvery careful, I observed, to turn my face away fromthe window, so that I became consumed with the de-sire to see what was going on behind my back. Atﬁrst it seemed to be impossible, but I soon devised ameans. My hand-mirror had been broken, so a happythought seized me, and I concealed a piece of theglass in my handkerchief. On the next occasion, inthe midst of my laughter, I put my handkerchief upto my eyes, and was able with a little managementto see all that there was behind me. I confess that Iwas disappointed. There was nothing. At least thatwas my ﬁrst impression. At the second glance, how-ever, I perceived that there was a man standing in theSouthampton Road, a small bearded man in a greysuit, who seemed to be looking in my direction. Theroad is an important highway, and there are usuallypeople there. This man, however, was leaning againstthe railings which bordered our ﬁeld and was lookingearnestly up. I lowered my handkerchief and glancedat Mrs. Rucastle to ﬁnd her eyes ﬁxed upon me witha most searching gaze. She said nothing, but I amconvinced that she had divined that I had a mirrorin my hand and had seen what was behind me. Sherose at once.“ ‘Jephro,’ said she, ‘there is an impertinent fellowupon the road there who stares up at Miss Hunter.’“ ‘No friend of yours, Miss Hunter?’ he asked.“ ‘No, I know no one in these parts.’“ ‘Dear me! How very impertinent! Kindly turnround and motion to him to go away.’“ ‘Surely it would be better to take no notice.’“ ‘No, no, we should have him loitering here al-ways. Kindly turn round and wave him away likethat.’“I did as I was told, and at the same instant Mrs.Rucastle drew down the blind. That was a week ago,and from that time I have not sat again in the window,nor have I worn the blue dress, nor seen the man inthe road.”“Pray continue,” said Holmes. “Your narrativepromises to be a most interesting one.”“You will ﬁnd it rather disconnected, I fear, andthere may prove to be little relation between the dif-ferent incidents of which I speak. On the very ﬁrstday that I was at the Copper Beeches, Mr. Rucastletook me to a small outhouse which stands near thekitchen door. As we approached it I heard the sharprattling of a chain, and the sound as of a large animalmoving about.“ ‘Look in here!’ said Mr. Rucastle, showing me aslit between two planks. ‘Is he not a beauty?’“I looked through and was conscious of two glow-ing eyes, and of a vague ﬁgure huddled up in thedarkness.“ ‘Don’t be frightened,’ said my employer, laugh-ing at the start which I had given. ‘It’s only Carlo,my mastiff. I call him mine, but really old Toller, mygroom, is the only man who can do anything withing at the start which I had given. ‘It’s only Carlo,my mastiff. I call him mine, but really old Toller, mygroom, is the only man who can do anything withhim. We feed him once a day, and not too much then,so that he is always as keen as mustard. Toller letshim loose every night, and God help the trespasserwhom he lays his fangs upon. For goodness’ sakedon’t you ever on any pretext set your foot over thethreshold at night, for it’s as much as your life isworth.’“The warning was no idle one, for two nights laterI happened to look out of my bedroom window abouttwo o’clock in the morning. It was a beautiful moon-light night, and the lawn in front of the house wassilvered over and almost as bright as day. I was stand-ing, rapt in the peaceful beauty of the scene, whenI was aware that something was moving under theshadow of the copper beeches. As it emerged into themoonshine I saw what it was. It was a giant dog, aslarge as a calf, tawny tinted, with hanging jowl, blackmuzzle, and huge projecting bones. It walked slowlyacross the lawn and vanished into the shadow uponthe other side. That dreadful sentinel sent a chill to153TheAdventure of the Copper Beechesmy heart which I do not think that any burglar couldhave done.“And now I have a very strange experience to tellyou. I had, as you know, cut off my hair in London,and I had placed it in a great coil at the bottom of mytrunk. One evening, after the child was in bed, I beganto amuse myself by examining the furniture of myroom and by rearranging my own little things. Therewas an old chest of drawers in the room, the twoupper ones empty and open, the lower one locked. Ihad ﬁlled the ﬁrst two with my linen, and as I hadstill much to pack away I was naturally annoyed atnot having the use of the third drawer. It struck methat it might have been fastened by a mere oversight,so I took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it.The very ﬁrst key ﬁtted to perfection, and I drew thedrawer open. There was only one thing in it, but I amsure that you would never guess what it was. It wasmy coil of hair.“I took it up and examined it. It was of the samepeculiar tint, and the same thickness. But then theimpossibility of the thing obtruded itself upon me.How could my hair have been locked in the drawer?With trembling hands I undid my trunk, turned outthe contents, and drew from the bottom my own hair.I laid the two tresses together, and I assure you thatthey were identical. Was it not extraordinary? Puz-zle as I would, I could make nothing at all of whatit meant. I returned the strange hair to the drawer,and I said nothing of the matter to the Rucastles as Ifelt that I had put myself in the wrong by opening adrawer which they had locked.“I am naturally observant, as you may have re-marked, Mr. Holmes, and I soon had a pretty goodplan of the whole house in my head. There was onewing, however, which appeared not to be inhabited atall. A door which faced that which led into the quar-ters of the Tollers opened into this suite, but it wasinvariably locked. One day, however, as I ascendedthe stair, I met Mr. Rucastle coming out through thisdoor, his keys in his hand, and a look on his facewhich made him a very different person to the round,jovial man to whom I was accustomed. His cheekswere red, his brow was all crinkled with anger, andthe veins stood out at his temples with passion. Helocked the door and hurried past me without a wordor a look.“This aroused my curiosity, so when I went outfor a walk in the grounds with my charge, I strolledround to the side from which I could see the windowsof this part of the house. There were four of themin a row, three of which were simply dirty, while thefourth was shuttered up. They were evidently all de-serted. As I strolled up and down, glancing at themoccasionally, Mr. Rucastle came out to me, looking asmerry and jovial as ever.“ ‘Ah!’ said he, ‘you must not think me rude if Ipassed you without a word, my dear young lady. Iwas preoccupied with business matters.’“I assured him that I was not offended. ‘By theway,’ said I, ‘you seem to have quite a suite of sparerooms up there, and one of them has the shutters up.’“He looked surprised and, as it seemed to me, alittle startled at my remark.“ ‘Photography is one of my hobbies,’ said he. ‘Ihave made my dark room up there. But, dear me!what an observant young lady we have come upon.Who would have believed it? Who would have everbelieved it?’ He spoke in a jesting tone, but there wasno jest in his eyes as he looked at me. I read suspicionthere and annoyance, but no jest.“Well, Mr. Holmes, from the moment that I under-stood that there was something about that suite ofrooms which I was not to know, I was all on ﬁre to goover them. It was not mere curiosity, though I havemy share of that. It was more a feeling of duty—afeeling that some good might come from my pene-trating to this place. They talk of woman’s instinct;perhaps it was woman’s instinct which gave me thatfeeling. At any rate, it was there, and I was keenlytrating to this place. They talk of woman’s instinct;perhaps it was woman’s instinct which gave me thatfeeling. At any rate, it was there, and I was keenlyon the lookout for any chance to pass the forbiddendoor.“It was only yesterday that the chance came. Imay tell you that, besides Mr. Rucastle, both Tollerand his wife ﬁnd something to do in these desertedrooms, and I once saw him carrying a large blacklinen bag with him through the door. Recently he hasbeen drinking hard, and yesterday evening he wasvery drunk; and when I came upstairs there was thekey in the door. I have no doubt at all that he hadleft it there. Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle were both down-stairs, and the child was with them, so that I had anadmirable opportunity. I turned the key gently in thelock, opened the door, and slipped through.“There was a little passage in front of me, unpa-pered and uncarpeted, which turned at a right angleat the farther end. Round this corner were three doorsin a line, the ﬁrst and third of which were open. Theyeach led into an empty room, dusty and cheerless,with two windows in the one and one in the other, sothick with dirt that the evening light glimmered dimlythrough them. The centre door was closed, and acrossthe outside of it had been fastened one of the broadbars of an iron bed, padlocked at one end to a ring154TheAdventure of the Copper Beechesin the wall, and fastened at the other with stout cord.The door itself was locked as well, and the key wasnot there. This barricaded door corresponded clearlywith the shuttered window outside, and yet I couldsee by the glimmer from beneath it that the room wasnot in darkness. Evidently there was a skylight whichlet in light from above. As I stood in the passagegazing at the sinister door and wondering what secretit might veil, I suddenly heard the sound of stepswithin the room and saw a shadow pass backwardand forward against the little slit of dim light whichshone out from under the door. A mad, unreasoningterror rose up in me at the sight, Mr. Holmes. Myoverstrung nerves failed me suddenly, and I turnedand ran—ran as though some dreadful hand werebehind me clutching at the skirt of my dress. I rusheddown the passage, through the door, and straight intothe arms of Mr. Rucastle, who was waiting outside.“ ‘So,’ said he, smiling, ‘it was you, then. I thoughtthat it must be when I saw the door open.’“ ‘Oh, I am so frightened!’ I panted.“ ‘My dear young lady! my dear younglady!’—you cannot think how caressing and soothinghis manner was—‘and what has frightened you, mydear young lady?’“But his voice was just a little too coaxing. Heoverdid it. I was keenly on my guard against him.“ ‘I was foolish enough to go into the empty wing,’I answered. ‘But it is so lonely and eerie in this dimlight that I was frightened and ran out again. Oh, itis so dreadfully still in there!’“ ‘Only that?’ said he, looking at me keenly.“ ‘Why, what did you think?’ I asked.“ ‘Why do you think that I lock this door?’“ ‘I am sure that I do not know.’“ ‘It is to keep people out who have no businessthere. Do you see?’ He was still smiling in the mostamiable manner.“ ‘I am sure if I had known—’“ ‘Well, then, you know now. And if you ever putyour foot over that threshold again’—here in an in-stant the smile hardened into a grin of rage, and heglared down at me with the face of a demon—‘I’llthrow you to the mastiff.’“I was so terriﬁed that I do not know what I did.I suppose that I must have rushed past him into myroom. I remember nothing until I found myself lyingon my bed trembling all over. Then I thought of you,Mr. Holmes. I could not live there longer withoutsome advice. I was frightened of the house, of theman, of the woman, of the servants, even of the child.They were all horrible to me. If I could only bringyou down all would be well. Of course I might haveﬂed from the house, but my curiosity was almost asstrong as my fears. My mind was soon made up. Iwould send you a wire. I put on my hat and cloak,went down to the ofﬁce, which is about half a milefrom the house, and then returned, feeling very mucheasier. A horrible doubt came into my mind as I ap-proached the door lest the dog might be loose, but Iremembered that Toller had drunk himself into a stateof insensibility that evening, and I knew that he wasthe only one in the household who had any inﬂuencewith the savage creature, or who would venture to sethim free. I slipped in in safety and lay awake half thenight in my joy at the thought of seeing you. I hadno difﬁculty in getting leave to come into Winchesterthis morning, but I must be back before three o’clock,for Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle are going on a visit, andwill be away all the evening, so that I must look afterthe child. Now I have told you all my adventures, Mr.Holmes, and I should be very glad if you could tellme what it all means, and, above all, what I shoulddo.”Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this ex-traordinary story. My friend rose now and paced upand down the room, his hands in his pockets, andan expression of the most profound gravity upon hisface.“Is Toller still drunk?” he asked.“Yes. I heard his wife tell Mrs. Rucastle that shecould do nothing with him.”“That is well. And the Rucastles go out to-night?”“Yes.”face.“Is Toller still drunk?” he asked.“Yes. I heard his wife tell Mrs. Rucastle that shecould do nothing with him.”“That is well. And the Rucastles go out to-night?”“Yes.”“Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?”“Yes, the wine-cellar.”“You seem to me to have acted all through thismatter like a very brave and sensible girl, Miss Hunter.Do you think that you could perform one more feat?I should not ask it of you if I did not think you a quiteexceptional woman.”“I will try. What is it?”“We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seveno’clock, my friend and I. The Rucastles will be goneby that time, and Toller will, we hope, be incapable.There only remains Mrs. Toller, who might give thealarm. If you could send her into the cellar on someerrand, and then turn the key upon her, you wouldfacilitate matters immensely.”“I will do it.”155TheAdventure of the Copper Beeches“Excellent! We shall then look thoroughly intothe affair. Of course there is only one feasible expla-nation. You have been brought there to personatesomeone, and the real person is imprisoned in thischamber. That is obvious. As to who this prisoneris, I have no doubt that it is the daughter, Miss Al-ice Rucastle, if I remember right, who was said tohave gone to America. You were chosen, doubtless,as resembling her in height, ﬁgure, and the colourof your hair. Hers had been cut off, very possibly insome illness through which she has passed, and so, ofcourse, yours had to be sacriﬁced also. By a curiouschance you came upon her tresses. The man in theroad was undoubtedly some friend of hers—possiblyher ﬁanc ´e—and no doubt, as you wore the girl’s dressand were so like her, he was convinced from yourlaughter, whenever he saw you, and afterwards fromyour gesture, that Miss Rucastle was perfectly happy,and that she no longer desired his attentions. The dogis let loose at night to prevent him from endeavouringto communicate with her. So much is fairly clear. Themost serious point in the case is the disposition of thechild.”“What on earth has that to do with it?” I ejacu-lated.“My dear Watson, you as a medical man are con-tinually gaining light as to the tendencies of a childby the study of the parents. Don’t you see that theconverse is equally valid. I have frequently gainedmy ﬁrst real insight into the character of parents bystudying their children. This child’s disposition is ab-normally cruel, merely for cruelty’s sake, and whetherhe derives this from his smiling father, as I shouldsuspect, or from his mother, it bodes evil for the poorgirl who is in their power.”“I am sure that you are right, Mr. Holmes,” criedour client. “A thousand things come back to mewhich make me certain that you have hit it. Oh, letus lose not an instant in bringing help to this poorcreature.”“We must be circumspect, for we are dealing witha very cunning man. We can do nothing until seveno’clock. At that hour we shall be with you, and it willnot be long before we solve the mystery.”We were as good as our word, for it was just sevenwhen we reached the Copper Beeches, having putup our trap at a wayside public-house. The group oftrees, with their dark leaves shining like burnishedmetal in the light of the setting sun, were sufﬁcientto mark the house even had Miss Hunter not beenstanding smiling on the door-step.“Have you managed it?” asked Holmes.A loud thudding noise came from somewheredownstairs. “That is Mrs. Toller in the cellar,” saidshe. “Her husband lies snoring on the kitchen rug.Here are his keys, which are the duplicates of Mr.Rucastle’s.”“You have done well indeed!” cried Holmes withenthusiasm. “Now lead the way, and we shall soonsee the end of this black business.”We passed up the stair, unlocked the door, fol-lowed on down a passage, and found ourselves infront of the barricade which Miss Hunter had de-scribed. Holmes cut the cord and removed the trans-verse bar. Then he tried the various keys in the lock,but without success. No sound came from within,and at the silence Holmes’ face clouded over.“I trust that we are not too late,” said he. “I think,Miss Hunter, that we had better go in without you.Now, Watson, put your shoulder to it, and we shallsee whether we cannot make our way in.”It was an old rickety door and gave at once be-fore our united strength. Together we rushed into theroom. It was empty. There was no furniture save alittle pallet bed, a small table, and a basketful of linen.The skylight above was open, and the prisoner gone.“There has been some villainy here,” said Holmes;“this beauty has guessed Miss Hunter’s intentionsand has carried his victim off.”“But how?”“Through the skylight. We shall soon see howhe managed it.” He swung himself up onto the roof.“Ah, yes,” he cried, “here’s the end of a long lightand has carried his victim off.”“But how?”“Through the skylight. We shall soon see howhe managed it.” He swung himself up onto the roof.“Ah, yes,” he cried, “here’s the end of a long lightladder against the eaves. That is how he did it.”“But it is impossible,” said Miss Hunter; “the lad-der was not there when the Rucastles went away.”“He has come back and done it. I tell you that heis a clever and dangerous man. I should not be verymuch surprised if this were he whose step I hear nowupon the stair. I think, Watson, that it would be aswell for you to have your pistol ready.”The words were hardly out of his mouth beforea man appeared at the door of the room, a very fatand burly man, with a heavy stick in his hand. MissHunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at thesight of him, but Sherlock Holmes sprang forwardand confronted him.“You villain!” said he, “where’s your daughter?”The fat man cast his eyes round, and then up atthe open skylight.“It is for me to ask you that,” he shrieked, “youthieves! Spies and thieves! I have caught you, have I?156TheAdventure of the Copper BeechesYou are in my power. I’ll serve you!” He turned andclattered down the stairs as hard as he could go.“He’s gone for the dog!” cried Miss Hunter.“I have my revolver,” said I.“Better close the front door,” cried Holmes, andwe all rushed down the stairs together. We had hardlyreached the hall when we heard the baying of a hound,and then a scream of agony, with a horrible worry-ing sound which it was dreadful to listen to. Anelderly man with a red face and shaking limbs camestaggering out at a side door.“My God!” he cried. “Someone has loosed thedog. It’s not been fed for two days. Quick, quick, orit’ll be too late!”Holmes and I rushed out and round the angleof the house, with Toller hurrying behind us. Therewas the huge famished brute, its black muzzle buriedin Rucastle’s throat, while he writhed and screamedupon the ground. Running up, I blew its brains out,and it fell over with its keen white teeth still meetingin the great creases of his neck. With much labourwe separated them and carried him, living but hor-ribly mangled, into the house. We laid him uponthe drawing-room sofa, and having dispatched thesobered Toller to bear the news to his wife, I did whatI could to relieve his pain. We were all assembledround him when the door opened, and a tall, gauntwoman entered the room.“Mrs. Toller!” cried Miss Hunter.“Yes, miss. Mr. Rucastle let me out when he cameback before he went up to you. Ah, miss, it is a pityyou didn’t let me know what you were planning, forI would have told you that your pains were wasted.”“Ha!” said Holmes, looking keenly at her. “It isclear that Mrs. Toller knows more about this matterthan anyone else.”“Yes, sir, I do, and I am ready enough to tell whatI know.”“Then, pray, sit down, and let us hear it for thereare several points on which I must confess that I amstill in the dark.”“I will soon make it clear to you,” said she; “andI’d have done so before now if I could ha’ got outfrom the cellar. If there’s police-court business overthis, you’ll remember that I was the one that stoodyour friend, and that I was Miss Alice’s friend too.“She was never happy at home, Miss Alice wasn’t,from the time that her father married again. Shewas slighted like and had no say in anything, but itnever really became bad for her until after she metMr. Fowler at a friend’s house. As well as I couldlearn, Miss Alice had rights of her own by will, butshe was so quiet and patient, she was, that she neversaid a word about them but just left everything inMr. Rucastle’s hands. He knew he was safe with her;but when there was a chance of a husband comingforward, who would ask for all that the law wouldgive him, then her father thought it time to put a stopon it. He wanted her to sign a paper, so that whethershe married or not, he could use her money. Whenshe wouldn’t do it, he kept on worrying her until shegot brain-fever, and for six weeks was at death’s door.Then she got better at last, all worn to a shadow, andwith her beautiful hair cut off; but that didn’t makeno change in her young man, and he stuck to her astrue as man could be.”“Ah,” said Holmes, “I think that what you havebeen good enough to tell us makes the matter fairlyclear, and that I can deduce all that remains. Mr.Rucastle then, I presume, took to this system of im-prisonment?”“Yes, sir.”“And brought Miss Hunter down from London inorder to get rid of the disagreeable persistence of Mr.Fowler.”“That was it, sir.”“But Mr. Fowler being a persevering man, as agood seaman should be, blockaded the house, andhaving met you succeeded by certain arguments,metallic or otherwise, in convincing you that yourinterests were the same as his.”“Mr. Fowler was a very kind-spoken, free-handedgentleman,” said Mrs. Toller serenely.“And in this way he managed that your goodman should have no want of drink, and that a laddershould be ready at the moment when your mastergentleman,” said Mrs. Toller serenely.“And in this way he managed that your goodman should have no want of drink, and that a laddershould be ready at the moment when your masterhad gone out.”“You have it, sir, just as it happened.”“I am sure we owe you an apology, Mrs. Toller,”said Holmes, “for you have certainly cleared up every-thing which puzzled us. And here comes the countrysurgeon and Mrs. Rucastle, so I think, Watson, thatwe had best escort Miss Hunter back to Winchester,as it seems to me that our locus standi now is rather aquestionable one.”And thus was solved the mystery of the sinisterhouse with the copper beeches in front of the door. Mr.Rucastle survived, but was always a broken man, keptalive solely through the care of his devoted wife. Theystill live with their old servants, who probably knowso much of Rucastle’s past life that he ﬁnds it difﬁcult157TheAdventure of the Copper Beechesto part from them. Mr. Fowler and Miss Rucastlewere married, by special license, in Southampton theday after their ﬂight, and he is now the holder of agovernment appointment in the island of Mauritius.As to Miss Violet Hunter, my friend Holmes, ratherto my disappointment, manifested no further interestin her when once she had ceased to be the centre ofone of his problems, and she is now the head of aprivate school at Walsall, where I believe that she hasmet with considerable success.158